Assembly Bill No. 325 
CHAPTER 338 
An act to add Sections 16729 and 16756.1 to the Business and Professions 
Code, relating to business regulations. 
[Approved by Governor October 6, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 6, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 325, Aguiar-Curry. Cartwright Act: violations. 
Existing la w establishes the Attorney General as the head of the 
Department of Justice, with charge of all legal matters in which the state is 
interested, except as specified. Existing law imposes various requirements 
on the Attorney General related to consumer protection, including, among 
others, the supervision of charitable trusts and the enforcement of antitrust 
laws. Existing la w, commonly kno wn as the Cartwright Act, identifies 
certain acts that are unla wful restraints of trade and unla wful trusts and 
prescribes provisions for its enforcement. 
Existing law requires a complaint or cross-complaint to contain, among 
other things, a statement of facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary 
and concise language. 
This bill would instead provide that in a complaint for an y violation of 
the Cartwright Act, it is sufficient to contain f actual alle gations 
demonstrating that the existence of a contract, combination in the form of 
a trust, or conspirac y to restrain trade or commerce is plausible. The bill 
would provide that a complaint for an y violation of the Cartwright Act is 
not required to allege facts tending to exclude the possibility of independent 
action. 
This bill would also make it unlawful for a person to use or distrib ute a 
common pricing algorithm as part of a contract, combination in the form 
of a trust, or conspiracy to restrain trade or commerce. The bill would make 
it unlawful for a person to use or distribute a common pricing algorithm if 
the person coerces another person to set or adopt a recommended price or 
commercial term recommended by the common pricing algorithm for the 
same or similar products or services in the jurisdiction of the state. Because 
the bill would expand the scope of acti vities prohibited by the Cartwright 
Act, the violation of which is punishable as a crime, the bill would impose 
a state-mandated local program. 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies 
and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory 
provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. 
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for 
a specified reason. 
  
 90 
  

The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 16729 is added to the Business and Professions 
Code, to read: 
16729. (a)  It shall be unlawful for a person to use or distribute a common 
pricing algorithm as part of a contract, combination in the form of a trust, 
or conspiracy to restrain trade or commerce in violation of this chapter. 
(b)  It shall be unlawful for a person to use or distribute a common pricing 
algorithm if the person coerces another person to set or adopt a recommended 
price or commercial term recommended by the common pricing algorithm 
for the same or similar products or services in the jurisdiction of this state. 
(c)  Nothing in this section shall impair or limit the applicability of 
antitrust laws. 
(d)  For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply: 
(1)  “Antitrust laws” means the provisions of this part. 
(2)  “Commercial term” includes, without limitation, any of the following: 
(A)  Level of service. 
(B)  Availability. 
(C)  Output, including quantities of products produced or distrib uted or 
the amount or level of service provided. 
(3)  “Common pricing algorithm” means an y methodology, including a 
computer, software, or other technology, used by two or more persons, that 
uses competitor data to recommend, align, stabilize, set, or otherwise 
influence a price or commercial term. 
(4)  “Distribute,” “distrib ution,” and “distrib uting” include selling, 
licensing, providing access to, or otherwise making available by any means, 
including through a subscription or the sale of a service. 
(5)  “Person” has the same meaning as defined in Section 16702 and does 
not include the end consumer of a product or service. 
(6)  “Price” means the amount of money or other thing of value, whether 
tangible or not, expected, required, or given in payment for any product or 
service, including compensation paid to an emplo yee or independent 
contractor for services provided. 
SEC. 2. Section 16756.1 is added to the Business and Professions Code, 
to read: 
16756.1. Notwithstanding any other law, in a complaint for any violation 
of this chapter, it is sufficient to contain f actual allegations demonstrating 
that the e xistence of a contract, combination in the form of a trust, or 
conspiracy to restrain trade or commerce is plausible, and the complaint 
shall not be required to alle ge facts tending to e xclude the possibility of 
independent action. 
SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 
of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that 
may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because 
this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, 
or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of 
Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime 
90 
— 2 — Ch. 338 
  

within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California 
Constitution. 
O 
90 
Ch. 338 — 3 — 
  