Assembly Bill No. 316 
CHAPTER 672 
An act to add Section 1714.46 to the Civil Code, relating to civil actions. 
[Approved by Governor October 13, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 13, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 316, Krell. Artificial intelligence: defenses. 
Existing law provides that everyone is responsible not only for the result 
of their willful acts, b ut also for an injury occasioned to another by their 
want of ordinary care or skill in the management of their property or person. 
Existing law requires the developer of a generative artificial intelligence 
system or service that is released on or after January 1, 2022, and made 
publicly available to Californians for use, to post on the developer's internet 
website documentation regarding the data used by the developer to train the 
generative artificial intelligence system or service. Existing la w defines 
“artificial intelligence” for these purposes. 
This bill would prohibit a defendant who de veloped, modified, or used 
artificial intelligence, as defined, from asserting a defense that the artificial 
intelligence autonomously caused the harm to the plaintiff. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 1714.46 is added to the Civil Code, to read: 
1714.46. (a)  “Artificial intelligence” means an engineered or 
machine-based system that varies in its level of autonomy and that can, for 
explicit or implicit objectives, infer from the input it receives how to generate 
outputs that can influence physical or virtual environments. 
(b)  In an action ag ainst a defendant who de veloped, modified, or used 
artificial intelligence that is alleged to have caused a harm to the plaintif f, 
it shall not be a defense, and the defendant may not assert, that the artificial 
intelligence autonomously caused the harm to the plaintiff. 
(c)  This section does not limit or preclude a defendant from presenting 
either of the following: 
(1)  Any other affirmati ve defense, including e vidence rele vant to 
causation or foreseeability. 
(2)  Other evidence relevant to the comparative fault of any other person 
or entity. 
O 
  
 95 
  