Assembly Bill No. 489 
CHAPTER 615 
An act to add Chapter 15.5 (commencing with Section 4999.8) to Division 
2 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to healing arts. 
[Approved by Governor October 11, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 11, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 489, Bonta. Health care professions: decepti ve terms or letters: 
artificial intelligence. 
Existing law establishes various healing arts boards within the Department 
of Consumer Affairs that license and regulate various healing arts licensees. 
Existing laws, including, among others, the Medical Practice Act and the 
Dental Practice Act, make it a crime for a person who is not licensed as a 
specified health care professional to use certain words, letters, and phrases 
or an y other terms that imply that the y are authorized to practice that 
profession. 
Existing law requires, with certain e xemptions, a health f acility, clinic, 
physician’s office, or office of a group practice that uses generative artificial 
intelligence, as defined, to generate written or verbal patient communications 
pertaining to patient clinical information, as defined, to ensure that those 
communications include both (1) a disclaimer that indicates to the patient 
that a communication w as generated by generati ve artificial intelligence, 
as specified, and (2) clear instructions describing how a patient may contact 
a human health care pro vider, emplo yee, or other appropriate person. 
Existing law provides that a violation of these pro visions by a ph ysician 
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Medical Board of California or the 
Osteopathic Medical Board of California, as appropriate. 
This bill would make provisions of law that prohibit the use of specified 
terms, letters, or phrases to falsely indicate or imply possession of a license 
or certificate to practice a health care profession, as defined, enforceable 
against an entity who de velops or deplo ys artificial intelligence (AI) or 
generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) technology that uses one or more 
of those terms, letters, or phrases in its advertising or functionality. The bill 
would prohibit the use by AI or GenAI technology of certain terms, letters, 
or phrases that indicate or imply that the advice, care, reports, or assessments 
being provided through AI or GenAI is being provided by a natural person 
with the appropriated health care license or certificate. 
This bill w ould mak e a violation of these pro visions subject to the 
jurisdiction of the appropriate health care profession board, and would make 
each use of a prohibited term, letter , or phrase punishable as a separate 
violation. 
  
 94 
  

By e xpanding the scope of e xisting crimes, this bill w ould impose a 
state-mandated local program. 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies 
and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory 
provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. 
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for 
a specified reason. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Chapter 15.5 (commencing with Section 4999.8) is added 
to Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code, to read: 
Chapter  15.5.  Health Advice From Artificial Intelligence 
4999.8. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply: 
(a)  “Artificial intelligence” or “AI” has the same meaning as set forth in 
Section 11546.45.5 of the Government Code. 
(b)  “Generative artificial intelligence” or “GenAI” has the same meaning 
as set forth in Section 11549.64 of the Government Code. 
(c)  “Health care profession” means any profession that is the subject of 
licensure or regulation under this division or under any initiative act referred 
to in this division. 
4999.9. (a)  (1)  A violation of this chapter is subject to the jurisdiction 
of the appropriate health care professional licensing board or enforcement 
agency. 
(2)  The appropriate health care professional licensing board may pursue 
an injunction or restraining order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, 
as authorized by Section 125.5. 
(3)  Nothing in this section limits the authority for a health care 
professional licensing board or enforcement agency to pursue any remedy 
otherwise authorized under the law. 
(b)  Any provision of this division that prohibits the use of specified terms, 
letters, or phrases to indicate or imply possession of a license or certificate 
to practice a health care profession, without at that time ha ving the 
appropriate license or certificate required for that practice or profession, 
shall be enforceable ag ainst a person or entity who de velops or deploys a 
system or device that uses one or more of those terms, letters, or phrases in 
the advertising or functionality of an artificial intelligence or generati ve 
artificial intelligence system, program, device, or similar technology. 
(c)  The use of a term, letter, or phrase in the advertising or functionality 
of an AI or GenAI system, program, de vice, or similar technology that 
indicates or implies that the care, advice, reports, or assessments being 
offered through the AI or GenAI technology is being provided by a natural 
person in possession of the appropriate license or certificate to practice as 
a health care professional, is prohibited. 
94 
— 2 — Ch. 615 
  

(d)  Each use of a prohibited term, letter , or phrase shall constitute a 
separate violation of this chapter. 
SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 
of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that 
may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because 
this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, 
or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of 
Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime 
within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California 
Constitution. 
O 
94 
Ch. 615 — 3 — 
  