Assembly Bill No. 621 
CHAPTER 673 
An act to amend Section 1708.86 of the Civil Code, relating to the internet. 
[Approved by Governor October 13, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 13, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 621, Bauer-Kahan. Deepfake pornography. 
Existing law grants to a depicted indi vidual a cause of action ag ainst a 
person who creates and intentionally discloses sexually explicit material if 
the person kno ws, or reasonably should ha ve kno wn, that the depicted 
individual in that material did not consent to its creation or disclosure or 
who intentionally discloses se xually explicit material that the person did 
not create if the person kno ws the depicted individual in that material did 
not consent to the creation of the se xually explicit material. Existing la w 
defines “sexually explicit material” for purposes of that provision to mean 
any portion of an audio visual w ork that sho ws the depicted indi vidual 
performing in the nude or appearing to eng age in, or being subjected to, 
sexual conduct and defines “depicted individual” to mean an individual who 
appears, as a result of digitization, to be giving a performance the individual 
did not actually perform or to be performing in an altered depiction. Existing 
law authorizes a plaintiff to recover, among other relief, statutory damages 
of not less than $1,500 b ut not more than $30,000, or $150,000 for a 
malicious violation, as prescribed. 
This bill w ould re vise and recast the pro vision described abo ve to 
additionally grant to a depicted individual a cause of action against a person 
who knows, or reasonably should know, that the depicted individual was a 
minor when the digitized sexually explicit material was created and would 
additionally grant a cause of action to that depicted indi vidual against a 
person who kno wingly f acilitates or recklessly aids or abets conduct 
prohibited by that pro vision. The bill w ould define “digitized se xually 
explicit material” to mean any portion of a visual or audiovisual work created 
or substantially altered through digitization, including an image, that shows 
the depicted indi vidual in the nude or appearing to eng age in, or being 
subjected to, sexual conduct. 
This bill w ould make a person that pro vides a service that enables the 
ongoing operation of a deepf ake pornograph y service presumed to be 
engaged in knowing facilitation or reckless aiding or abetting, as described 
above, if a depicted individual or public prosecutor provides the person with 
evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the person is providing services that 
enable the ongoing operation of a deepfake pornography service that engages 
in conduct described in the provisions described above, and the person fails 
  
 93 
  

to take all necessary steps to stop providing services that enable the ongoing 
operation of a deepf ake pornography service within 30 days of recei ving 
that evidence, as specified. This bill would increase the maximum statutory 
damages available to a depicted individual to $50,000 if the violation w as 
not malicious and $250,000 for a malicious violation and would authorize 
certain public attorneys to bring a civil action to enforce these pro visions, 
as specified. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 1708.86 of the Civil Code is amended to read: 
1708.86. (a)  For purposes of this section: 
(1)  “Authorized representati ve” means an attorne y, talent agent, or 
personal manager authorized to represent a depicted individual if the depicted 
individual is represented. 
(2)  (A)  “Consent” means an agreement written in plain language signed 
knowingly and voluntarily by the depicted individual that includes a general 
description of the digitized se xually e xplicit material and the visual or 
audiovisual work in which it will be incorporated. 
(B)  A depicted indi vidual may rescind consent by deli vering written 
notice within three b usiness days from the date consent w as given to the 
person in whose f avor consent w as made, unless one of the follo wing 
requirements is satisfied: 
(i)  The depicted individual is given at least 72 hours to review the terms 
of the agreement before signing it. 
(ii)  The depicted individual’s authorized representative provides written 
approval of the signed agreement. 
(3)  “Deepfake pornography service” means an internet website, mobile 
application, or other service the primary purpose of which is to create 
digitized sexually explicit material. 
(4)  “Depicted indi vidual” means an indi vidual who is portrayed in 
sexually explicit material. 
(5)  “Despicable conduct” means conduct that is so vile, base, or 
contemptible that it would be looked down on and despised by a reasonable 
person. 
(6)  “Digitization” means a process by which an y of the follo wing are 
realistically depicted: 
(A)  The nude body parts of another human being as the nude body parts 
of the depicted individual. 
(B)  Computer-generated nude body parts as the nude body parts of the 
depicted individual. 
(C)  The depicted indi vidual engaging in se xual conduct in which the 
depicted individual did not engage. 
(7)  “Digitized sexually explicit material” means any portion of a visual 
or audiovisual work created or substantially altered through digitization, 
93 
— 2 — Ch. 673 
  

including an image, that sho ws the depicted indi vidual in the nude or 
appearing to engage in, or being subjected to, sexual conduct. 
(8)  “Disclose” means to publish, mak e a vailable, or distrib ute to the 
public. 
(9)  “Individual” means a natural person. 
(10)  (A)  “Malice” means an intent to cause harm to the depicted 
individual or to eng age in despicable conduct with a willful and kno wing 
disregard of the rights of the depicted individual. 
(B)  A person acts with kno wing disregard within the meaning of this 
paragraph when the person is aware of the probable harmful consequences 
of their conduct and deliberately fails to avoid those consequences. 
(11)  “Nude” means visible genitals, pubic area, anus, or a female’ s 
postpubescent nipple or areola. 
(12)  “Person” means a natural person or legal entity. 
(13)  “Plaintiff” includes cross-plaintiff. 
(14)  “Public prosecutor” means the Attorney General, a city attorne y, 
county counsel, district attorney, or any other city or county prosecutor. 
(15)  “Sexual conduct” means any of the following: 
(A)  Masturbation. 
(B)  Sexual intercourse, including genital, oral, or anal, whether between 
persons regardless of sex or gender or between humans and animals. 
(C)  Sexual penetration of the vagina or rectum by, or with, an object. 
(D)  The transfer of semen by means of se xual conduct from the penis 
directly onto the depicted individual as a result of ejaculation. 
(E)  Sadomasochistic abuse involving the depicted individual. 
(b)  A depicted individual has a cause of action against a person who does 
any of the following: 
(1)  Creates and intentionally discloses digitized sexually explicit material 
portraying the depicted indi vidual, and the person kno ws, or reasonably 
should know, that the depicted indi vidual in that material did not consent 
to its creation or disclosure or was a minor when the material was created. 
(2)  Intentionally discloses digitized sexually explicit material portraying 
the depicted individual that the person did not create, and the person knows, 
or reasonably should know, that the depicted individual in that material did 
not consent to the creation of the digitized sexually explicit material or was 
a minor when the material was created. 
(3)  Knowingly facilitates or recklessly aids or abets conduct prohibited 
by paragraph (1) or (2). 
(c)  For purposes of this section, both of the following apply: 
(1)  A person that o wns, operates, or controls a deepf ake pornography 
service is eng aged in the creation and intentional disclosure of digitized 
sexually explicit material and shall be presumed to ha ve known that the 
depicted indi vidual did not consent to the creation or disclosure of the 
digitized sexually explicit material, unless the person produces evidence of 
the depicted individual’s express written consent. 
93 
Ch. 673 — 3 — 
  

(2)  A person that provides a service that enables the ongoing operation 
of a deepfake pornography service shall be presumed to be in violation of 
paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) if both of the following are true: 
(A)  (i)  A depicted individual or public prosecutor pro vides the person 
with evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the person is providing services 
that enable the ongoing operation of a deepf ake pornography service that 
engages in conduct that violates this section. 
(ii)  Evidence described in clause (i) shall be submitted through a customer 
service email or other designated process provided by the person or entity 
if the customer service email or other designated process is prominently 
displayed on the person’s or entity’s internet website and shall contain all 
of the following information: 
(I)  The name of the deepf ake pornography service that the person or 
entity is providing services to that enable its ongoing operation. 
(II)  A general description of the services the person or entity is providing 
that enable the ongoing operation of the deepfake pornography service. 
(III)  Contact information of the depicted individual or public prosecutor 
providing the e vidence. This information shall be used by the person or 
entity only to seek additional information re garding the report that is 
necessary to take the steps required by subparagraph (B). 
(B)  (i)  Subject to clause (ii), the person fails to take all necessary steps 
to stop providing services that enable the ongoing operation of a deepf ake 
pornography service within 30 days of receiving the evidence described in 
subparagraph (A). 
(ii)  The 30-day time parameter in clause (i) may be extended by a court 
if the court finds that additional time is needed to conduct an ongoing la w 
enforcement investigation or operation. 
(d)  (1)  A person is not liable under this section in either of the following 
circumstances: 
(A)  The person discloses the digitized se xually explicit material in the 
course of any of the following: 
(i)  Reporting unlawful activity. 
(ii)  Exercising the person’s law enforcement duties. 
(iii)  Hearings, trials, or other legal proceedings. 
(B)  The material is any of the following: 
(i)  A matter of legitimate public concern. 
(ii)  A work of political or newsworthy value or similar work. 
(iii)  Commentary, criticism, or disclosure that is otherwise protected by 
the California Constitution or the United States Constitution. 
(2)  For purposes of this subdivision, digitized sexually explicit material 
is not of newsworthy value solely because the depicted individual is a public 
figure. 
(e)  (1)  It shall not be a defense to an action under this section that there 
is a disclaimer included in the digitized se xually e xplicit material that 
communicates that the depicted individual did not participate in or authorize 
the creation or development of the material. 
93 
— 4 — Ch. 673 
  

(2)  It shall not be a defense to an action under this section that a deepfake 
pornography service has a disclaimer or statement that states that users are 
prohibited from generating digitized sexually explicit material of a depicted 
individual without the individual’s consent. 
(f)  (1)  A prevailing plaintiff who is a depicted indi vidual who suf fers 
harm as a result of a violation of this section may reco ver an y of the 
following: 
(A)  An amount equal to the monetary gain made by the defendant from 
the creation and disclosure of the digitized sexually explicit material. 
(B)  One of the following: 
(i)  Economic and noneconomic damages proximately caused by the 
disclosure of the digitized sexually explicit material, including damages for 
emotional distress. 
(ii)  Upon request of the plaintif f at any time before the final judgment 
is rendered, the plaintiff may instead recover an award of statutory damages 
for all unauthorized acts in volved in the action, with respect to an y one 
work, as follows: 
(I)  A sum of not less than one thousand fiv e hundred dollars ($1,500) 
but not more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). 
(II)  If the unlawful act was committed with malice, the award of statutory 
damages may be increased to a maximum of tw o hundred fifty thousand 
dollars ($250,000). 
(C)  Punitive damages. 
(D)  Reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. 
(E)  Any other available relief, including injunctive relief. 
(2)  A public prosecutor may bring a civil action to enforce this section. 
(A)  In an action brought under this paragraph, the public prosecutor shall 
not be required to prove that a depicted individual suffered actual harm. 
(B)  A prevailing public prosecutor under this paragraph is entitled to all 
of the following: 
(i)  Injunctive and other equitable relief. 
(ii)  A civil penalty of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per violation. 
(iii)  For a violation committed with malice, a ci vil penalty of fifty 
thousand dollars ($50,000) per violation. 
(iv)  Reasonable attorney’s fees. 
(v)  Any other relief the court deems appropriate. 
(3)  The remedies provided by this section are cumulati ve and shall not 
be construed as restricting a remedy that is available under any other law. 
(g)  An action under this section shall be commenced no later than three 
years from the date the unauthorized creation, de velopment, or disclosure 
was disco vered or should ha ve been disco vered with the e xercise of 
reasonable diligence. 
(h)  The provisions of this section are severable. If any provision of this 
section or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other 
provisions. 
(i)  This section does not apply to conduct that is protected by federal 
law, including Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code. 
93 
Ch. 673 — 5 — 
  

(j)  (1)  This section shall not be construed to require an internet service 
provider to engage in any activity that would violate Title 15 (commencing 
with Section 3100) of P art 4 of Di vision 3. An internet service pro vider 
shall not be held liable under this section for the mere transmission, routing, 
or provision of access to third-party content over its network. 
(2)  As used in this subdivision, “internet service provider” has the same 
meaning as that term is defined in Section 3100. 
SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that the pro visions of this 
act that clarify that a deepf ake pornography service is subject to Section 
1708.86 of the Civil Code are declaratory of existing law. 
O 
93 
— 6 — Ch. 673 
  