Assembly Bill No. 723 
CHAPTER 497 
An act to add Section 10140.8 to the Business and Professions Code, 
relating to real estate. 
[Approved by Governor October 10, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 10, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 723, Pellerin. Real estate: digitally altered images: disclosure. 
Existing la w, the Real Estate La w, pro vides for the licensure and 
regulation of real estate brok ers and salespersons by the Real Estate 
Commissioner, the chief officer of the Department of Real Estate within 
the Business, Consumer Services, and Housing Agency. Existing la w 
provides various duties and obligations owed to a prospective purchaser of 
real property. A willful violation of the Real Estate Law is a crime. 
This bill would require a real estate broker or salesperson, or person acting 
on their behalf, who includes a digitally altered image, as defined, in an 
advertisement or other promotional material for the sale of real property to 
include a disclosure, as specified. If the adv ertisement or promotional 
material is posted on an internet website, the bill w ould require the same 
image without digital alteration to be included, as specified. By imposing 
new requirements on real estate licensees, the violation of which is a crime, 
this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies 
and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory 
provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. 
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for 
a specified reason. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 10140.8 is added to the Business and Professions 
Code, to read: 
10140.8. (a)  (1)  A real estate brok er or salesperson, or person acting 
on their behalf, who includes a digitally altered image in an advertisement 
or other promotional material for the sale of real property shall include in 
the advertisement or promotional material a statement disclosing that the 
image has been altered and a link to a publicly accessible internet website, 
URL, or QR code that includes, and clearly identifies, the original, unaltered 
image. The statement shall be reasonably conspicuous and located on or 
  
 94 
  

adjacent to the image and shall include language indicating that the unaltered 
images can be accessed on the linked internet website, URL, or QR code. 
(2)  If an advertisement or promotional material described in paragraph 
(1) is posted on an internet website o ver which the real estate brok er or 
salesperson, or person acting on their behalf, has control, they shall include 
the unaltered version of the images from which the digitally altered images 
were created in the posting. A person subject to this paragraph may comply 
with this requirement by including a link to a publicly accessible internet 
website that includes, and clearly identifies, the original, unaltered image. 
If the real estate brok er or salesperson, or person acting on their behalf, 
complies with this requirement by including a link to the unaltered images, 
the statement required by paragraph (1) shall include language indicating 
the unaltered images can be accessed on the linked internet website, URL, 
or QR code. 
(b)  (1)  For purposes of this section, “digitally altered image” means an 
image, created by or at the direction of the real estate broker or salesperson, 
or person acting on their behalf, that has been altered through the use of 
photo editing software or artificial intelligence to add, remo ve, or change 
elements in the image, including, b ut not limited to, fixtures, furniture, 
appliances, flooring, walls, paint color, hardscape, landscape, facade, floor 
plans, and elements outside of, or visible from, the property, including, but 
not limited to, streetlights, utility poles, vie ws through windo ws, and 
neighboring properties. 
(2)  “Digitally altered image” does not include an image where only 
lighting, sharpening, white balance, color correction, angle, straightening, 
cropping, exposure, or other common photo editing adjustments are made 
that do not change the representation of the real property. 
SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 
of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that 
may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because 
this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, 
or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of 
Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime 
within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California 
Constitution. 
O 
94 
— 2 — Ch. 497 
  