Assembly Bill No. 853 
CHAPTER 674 
An act to amend Sections 22757.1, 22757.4, and 22757.6 of, and to add 
Sections 22757.3.1, 22757.3.2, and 22757.3.3 to, the Business and 
Professions Code, relating to artificial intelligence. 
[Approved by Governor October 13, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 13, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 853, Wicks. California AI Transparency Act. 
The California AI Transparency Act requires a person that creates, codes, 
or otherwise produces a generati ve artificial intelligence system that has 
over 1,000,000 monthly visitors or users and is publicly accessible within 
the geographic boundaries of the state to mak e available an AI detection 
tool at no cost to the user that, among other things, allo ws a user to assess 
whether image, video, or audio content, or content that is a combination 
thereof, w as created or altered by that person’ s generati ve artificial 
intelligence system and outputs any system provenance data that is detected 
in the content. Existing la w mak es the California AI Transparency Act 
operative on January 1, 2026. 
This bill w ould delay the operation of the California AI Transparency 
Act until August 2, 2026. 
This bill would, beginning January 1, 2027, additionally require a lar ge 
online platform, as defined, to, among other things related to the provenance 
of content on the platform, detect whether an y pro venance data that is 
compliant with widely adopted specifications adopted by an established 
standards-setting body is embedded into or attached to content distrib uted 
on the large online platform. The bill would also require, beginning January 
1, 2028, a capture device manufacturer, with respect to any capture device 
the capture de vice manufacturer first produced for sale in the state on or 
after January 1, 2028, to, among other things, provide a user with the option 
to include a latent disclosure in content captured by the capture device that 
conveys certain information, including the name of the capture de vice 
manufacturer. The bill would define “capture device” to mean a device that 
can record photographs, audio, or video content, including, but not limited 
to, video and still photography cameras, mobile phones with built-in cameras 
or microphones, and voice recorders. 
Existing law requires a covered provider to include a latent disclosure in 
AI-generated image, video, or audio content, or content that is an y 
combination thereof, created by the covered provider’s GenAI system that, 
among other things, con veys certain information and is permanent or 
extraordinarily difficult to remove, to the extent it is technically feasible. 
  
 93 
  

This bill w ould, beginning January 1, 2027, prohibit a GenAI system 
hosting platform, as defined, from kno wingly making a vailable a GenAI 
system that does not place disclosures, pursuant to those provisions. 
This bill would declare that its provisions are severable. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 22757.1 of the Business and Professions Code is 
amended to read: 
22757.1. As used in this chapter: 
(a)  “Artificial intelligence” or “ AI” means an engineered or 
machine-based system that varies in its level of autonomy and that can, for 
explicit or implicit objectives, infer from the input it receives how to generate 
outputs that can influence physical or virtual environments. 
(b)  “Capture device” means a device that can record photographs, audio, 
or video content, including, but not limited to, video and still photography 
cameras, mobile phones with b uilt-in cameras or microphones, and v oice 
recorders. 
(c)  (1)  “Capture device manufacturer” means a person who produces a 
capture device for sale in the state. 
(2)  “Capture device manufacturer” does not include a person exclusively 
engaged in the assembly of a capture device. 
(d)  “Covered provider” means a person that creates, codes, or otherwise 
produces a generative artificial intelligence system that has over 1,000,000 
monthly visitors or users and is publicly accessible within the geographic 
boundaries of the state. 
(e)  “Digital signature” means a cryptography-based method that identifies 
the user or entity that attests to the information pro vided in the signed 
section. 
(f)  “Generative artificial intelligence system” or “GenAI system” means 
an artificial intelligence that can generate derived synthetic content, including 
text, images, video, and audio, that emulates the structure and characteristics 
of the system’s training data. 
(g)  “GenAI hosting platform” means an internet website or application 
that mak es a vailable for do wnload the source code or model weights a 
generative artificial intelligence system by a resident of the state, regardless 
of whether the terms of that use include compensation. 
(h)  (1)  “Large online platform” means a public-f acing social media 
platform, file-sharing platform, mass messaging platform, or stand-alone 
search engine that distrib utes content to users who did not create or 
collaborate in creating the content that exceeded 2,000,000 unique monthly 
users during the preceding 12 months. 
(2)  “Large online platform” does not include either of the following: 
(A)  A broadband internet access service, as defined in Section 3100 of 
the Civil Code. 
93 
— 2 — Ch. 674 
  

(B)  A telecommunications service, as defined in Section 153 of Title 47 
of the United States Code. 
(i)  “Latent” means present but not manifest. 
(j)  “Manifest” means easily percei ved, understood, or recognized by a 
natural person. 
(k)  “Mass messaging platform” means a direct messaging platform that 
allows users to distribute content to more than 100 users simultaneously. 
(l)  “Metadata” means structural or descriptive information about data. 
(m)  “Personal information” has the same meaning as defined in Section 
1798.140 of the Civil Code. 
(n)  (1)  “Personal provenance data” means provenance data that contains 
either of the following: 
(A)  Personal information. 
(B)  Unique de vice, system, or service information that is reasonably 
capable of being associated with a particular user. 
(2)  “Personal provenance data” does not include information contained 
within a digital signature. 
(o)  “Provenance data” means data that is embedded into digital content, 
or that is included in the digital content’ s metadata, for the purpose of 
verifying the digital content’s authenticity, origin, or history of modification. 
(p)  “System pro venance data” means pro venance data that is not 
reasonably capable of being associated with a particular user and that 
contains either of the following: 
(1)  Information regarding the type of device, system, or service that was 
used to generate a piece of digital content. 
(2)  Information related to content authenticity. 
SEC. 2.  Section 22757.3.1 is added to the Business and Professions 
Code, to read: 
22757.3.1. (a)  A large online platform shall do all of the following: 
(1)  Detect whether an y provenance data that is compliant with widely 
adopted specifications adopted by an established standards-setting body is 
embedded into or attached to content distributed on the large online platform. 
(2)  (A)  Provide a user interf ace to disclose the a vailability of system 
provenance data that reliably indicates that the content w as generated or 
substantially altered by a GenAI system or captured by a capture device. 
(B)  The user interface required by this paragraph shall make clearly and 
conspicuously a vailable to users information sufficient to identify the 
content’s authenticity, origin, or history of modification, including, but not 
limited to, all of the following: 
(i)  Whether provenance data is available. 
(ii)  The name of the GenAI system or capture de vice that created or 
substantially altered the content, if applicable. 
(iii)  Whether any digital signatures are available. 
(3)  Allow a user to inspect all a vailable system provenance data that is 
compliant with widely adopted specifications adopted by an established 
standards-setting body in an easily accessible manner by any of the following 
means: 
93 
Ch. 674 — 3 — 
  

(A)  Directly through the large online platform’s user interface pursuant 
to paragraph (2). 
(B)  Allow the user to download a version of the content with its attached 
system provenance data. 
(C)  Provide a link to the content’s system provenance data displayed on 
an internet website or in another application pro vided either by the lar ge 
online platform or a third party. 
(b)  A large online platform shall not, to the e xtent technically feasible, 
knowingly strip an y system pro venance data or digital signature that is 
compliant with widely adopted specifications adopted by an established 
standards-setting body from content uploaded or distrib uted on the lar ge 
online platform. 
(c)  This section shall become operative on January 1, 2027. 
SEC. 3.  Section 22757.3.2 is added to the Business and Professions 
Code, to read: 
22757.3.2. (a)  A GenAI system hosting platform shall not kno wingly 
make available a GenAI system that does not place disclosures pursuant to 
Section 22757.3. 
(b)  This section shall become operative on January 1, 2027. 
SEC. 4.  Section 22757.3.3 is added to the Business and Professions 
Code, to read: 
22757.3.3. (a)  A capture device manufacturer shall, with respect to any 
capture device the capture de vice manufacturer first produced for sale in 
the state on or after January 1, 2028, do both of the following: 
(1)  Provide a user with the option to include a latent disclosure in content 
captured by the capture device that conveys all of the following information: 
(A)  The name of the capture device manufacturer. 
(B)  The name and version number of the capture device that created or 
altered the content. 
(C)  The time and date of the content’s creation or alteration. 
(2)  Embed latent disclosures in content captured by the device by default. 
(b)  A capture device manufacturer shall comply with this section only 
to the e xtent technically feasible and compliant with widely adopted 
specifications adopted by an established standards-setting body. 
(c)  This section shall become operative on January 1, 2028. 
SEC. 5.  Section 22757.4 of the Business and Professions Code  is 
amended to read: 
22757.4. (a)  (1)  A violator of this chapter shall be liable for a ci vil 
penalty in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000) per violation to be 
collected in a civil action filed by the Attorney General, a city attorney, or 
a county counsel. 
(2)  A prevailing plaintiff in an action brought pursuant to this subdivision 
shall be entitled to all reasonable attorney’s costs and fees. 
(b)  Each day that a co vered provider, large online platform, or capture 
device manufacturer is in violation of this chapter shall be deemed a discrete 
violation. 
93 
— 4 — Ch. 674 
  

(c)  For a violation by a third-party licensee of paragraph (3) of subdivision 
(c) of Section 22757.3, the Attorney General, a county counsel, or a city 
attorney may bring a civil action for both of the following: 
(1)  Injunctive relief. 
(2)  Reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. 
SEC. 6.  Section 22757.6 of the Business and Professions Code  is 
amended to read: 
22757.6. This chapter shall become operative on August 2, 2026. 
SEC. 7. The provisions of this act are severable. If any provision of this 
act or its application is held in valid, that in validity shall not af fect other 
provisions or applications that can be gi ven ef fect without the in valid 
provision or application. 
O 
93 
Ch. 674 — 5 — 
  