Assembly Bill No. 979 
CHAPTER 285 
An act to amend Section 8586.5 of the Go vernment Code, relating to 
technology. 
[Approved by Governor October 3, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 3, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
AB 979, Irwin. California Cybersecurity Inte gration Center: artificial 
intelligence. 
Existing law requires the Office of Emergency Services to establish and 
lead the California Cybersecurity Inte gration Center. Existing la w states 
that the center’s mission is to reduce the lik elihood and severity of cyber 
incidents that could damage California’s economy, its critical infrastructure, 
or public and pri vate sector computer netw orks in the state. Existing la w 
requires the center to serv e as the central or ganizing hub of state 
government’s cybersecurity activities and coordinate information sharing 
with specified entities, including local, state, and federal agencies. 
This bill would require the California Cybersecurity Inte gration Center 
to develop, on or before January 1, 2027, in consultation with the Office of 
Information Security and the Government Operations Agency, a California 
AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook, as specified, to f acilitate 
information sharing across the cyber and artificial intelligence communities 
and to strengthen collecti ve cyber defenses against emerging threats. The 
bill would require the center to review federal requirements, standards, and 
industry best practices, as specified, and to use those resources to inform 
the development of the California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook. 
Except as specified, the bill would provide that any information related to 
cyber threat indicators or defensi ve measures for a c ybersecurity purpose 
shared in accordance with the California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration 
Playbook is confidential and w ould prohibit that information from being 
disclosed, e xcept as specified. The bill w ould also mak e findings and 
declarations related to its provisions. 
Existing constitutional pro visions require that a statute that limits the 
right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public 
officials and agencies be adopted with findings demonstrating the interest 
protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest. 
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect. 
  
 93 
  

The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following: 
(a)  The Joint Cyber Defense Collaborati ve (JCDC) is a public-pri vate 
collaborative within the federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency that leverages authorities granted by Congress in the federal National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public La w 116-283) to 
unite the global cyber community in defense of cyberspace. 
(b)  On January 14, 2025, the JCDC published the JCDC AI Cybersecurity 
Collaboration Playbook to f acilitate voluntary information sharing across 
the cyber and artificial intelligence (AI) communities, including AI providers, 
developers, and adopters, to strengthen collecti ve cyber defenses ag ainst 
emerging threats. 
(c)  The JCDC AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook is intended to 
foster operational collaboration among go vernment, industry , and 
international partners and will be periodically updated to ensure adaptability 
to the dynamic threat landscape as AI adoption accelerates. 
(d)  Cybersecurity incident response best practice suggests that 
cybersecurity incidents are often best addressed at the state or local le vel. 
Therefore, it is critical to clarify and communicate the institutional reporting 
processes for cybersecurity incidents, including for AI-related incidents, at 
the state level, to complement the federal playbook. 
(e)  The federal Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (Public 
Law 114-113) (CISA 2015) created protections for nonfederal entities to 
share cyber threat indicators and defensi ve measures for a c ybersecurity 
purpose in accordance with certain requirements with the government and 
provides that the y may do so notwithstanding an y other la w. These 
protections include the nonw aiver of pri vilege, protection of proprietary 
information, e xemption from disclosure under the federal Freedom of 
Information Act (6 U.S.C. Sec. 552), and prohibition on use in re gulatory 
enforcement. CISA 2015 also created protections for cyber threat indicators 
and defensive measures shared under its pro visions with a state, tribal, or 
local go vernment, including that the information shall be e xempt from 
disclosure under local freedom of information law or similar law requiring 
disclosure of information or records. 
SEC. 2. Section 8586.5 of the Government Code is amended to read: 
8586.5. (a)  The Office of Emergency Services shall establish and lead 
the California Cybersecurity Integration Center. The California Cybersecurity 
Integration Center’s primary mission is to reduce the likelihood and severity 
of c yber incidents that could damage California’ s economy, its critical 
infrastructure, or public and private sector computer networks in the state. 
The California Cybersecurity Inte gration Center shall serv e as the central 
organizing hub of state government’s cybersecurity activities and coordinate 
information sharing with local, state, and federal agencies, tribal 
governments, utilities and other service pro viders, academic institutions, 
including school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools, 
and nongovernmental organizations. The California Cybersecurity Integration 
93 
— 2 — Ch. 285 
  

Center shall be composed of representati ves from the follo wing 
organizations: 
(1)  The Office of Emergency Services. 
(2)  The Office of Information Security. 
(3)  The State Threat Assessment Center. 
(4)  The Department of the California Highway Patrol. 
(5)  The Military Department. 
(6)  The Office of the Attorney General. 
(7)  The California Health and Human Services Agency. 
(8)  The California Utilities Emergency Association. 
(9)  The California State University. 
(10)  The University of California. 
(11)  The California Community Colleges. 
(12)  The State Department of Education. 
(13)  The United States Department of Homeland Security. 
(14)  The United States Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
(15)  The United States Secret Service. 
(16)  The United States Coast Guard. 
(17)  Other members as designated by the Director of Emergency Services. 
(b)  The California Cybersecurity Integration Center shall operate in close 
coordination with the California State Threat Assessment System and the 
United States Department of Homeland Security — National Cybersecurity 
and Communications Inte gration Center , including sharing c yber threat 
information that is received from utilities, academic institutions, including 
school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools, pri vate 
companies, and other appropriate sources. The California Cybersecurity 
Integration Center shall pro vide warnings of c yberattacks to go vernment 
agencies and nongo vernmental partners, coordinate information sharing 
among these entities, assess risks to critical infrastructure and information 
technology networks, prioritize cyber threats and support public and private 
sector partners in protecting their vulnerable infrastructure and information 
technology netw orks, enable cross-sector coordination and sharing of 
recommended best practices and security measures, and support 
cybersecurity assessments, audits, and accountability programs that are 
required by state la w to protect the information technology netw orks of 
California’s agencies and departments. 
(c)  The California Cybersecurity Inte gration Center shall de velop a 
statewide cybersecurity strategy, informed by recommendations from the 
California Task Force on Cybersecurity and in accordance with state and 
federal requirements, standards, and best practices. The c ybersecurity 
strategy shall be de veloped to impro ve how cyber threats are identified, 
understood, and shared in order to reduce threats to California government, 
businesses, and consumers. The strate gy shall also strengthen c yber 
emergency preparedness and response, standardize implementation of data 
protection measures, enhance digital forensics and c yber in vestigative 
capabilities, deepen expertise among California’s workforce of cybersecurity 
professionals, and expand cybersecurity awareness and public education. 
93 
Ch. 285 — 3 — 
  

(d)  The California Cybersecurity Inte gration Center shall establish a 
Cyber Incident Response Team to serve as California’s primary unit to lead 
cyber threat detection, reporting, and response in coordination with public 
and pri vate entities across the state. This team shall also assist la w 
enforcement agencies with primary jurisdiction for c yber-related criminal 
investigations and agencies responsible for advancing information security 
within state government. This team shall be comprised of personnel from 
agencies, departments, and or ganizations represented in the California 
Cybersecurity Integration Center. 
(e)  Information sharing by the California Cybersecurity Integration Center 
shall be conducted in a manner that protects the pri vacy and civil liberties 
of indi viduals, safe guards sensiti ve information, preserv es b usiness 
confidentiality, and enables public officials to detect, in vestigate, respond 
to, and prevent cyberattacks that threaten public health and safety, economic 
stability, and national security. 
(f)  (1)  Notwithstanding Section 10231.5, the California Cybersecurity 
Integration Center shall create four reports that describe all e xpenditures 
made by the state within a single fiscal year pursuant to the federal State 
and Local Cybersecurity Impro vement Act (Subtitle B of Title VI of the 
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), as specified 
in Section 665g of Title 6 of the United States Code). The reports shall be 
delivered to the Legislature according to the following: 
(A)  The first report for the 2021–22 fiscal year shall be delivered no later 
than December 31, 2023. 
(B)  The second report for the 2022–23 fiscal year shall be deli vered no 
later than December 31, 2024. 
(C)  The third report for the 2023–24 fiscal year shall be deli vered no 
later than December 31, 2025. 
(D)  The fourth report for the 2024–25 fiscal year shall be deli vered no 
later than December 31, 2026. 
(2)  Reports to be submitted pursuant to this subdivision shall be submitted 
in compliance with Section 9795. 
(g)  (1)  On or before January 1, 2027, the California Cybersecurity 
Integration Center shall de velop, in consultation with the Office of 
Information Security and the Government Operations Agency, a California 
AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook to facilitate information sharing 
across the cyber and artificial intelligence communities and to strengthen 
collective cyber defenses against emerging threats, including AI. 
(2)  The California Cybersecurity Integration Center shall review federal 
requirements, standards, and industry best practices, including the Joint 
Cyber Defense Collaborati ve AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook, 
and use those resources to inform the de velopment of the California AI 
Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook. The California Cybersecurity 
Integration Center shall also consider ho w the federal go vernment is 
implementing these requirements, standards, and best practices to inform 
its approach. 
93 
— 4 — Ch. 285 
  

(3)  The California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook shall include 
mandatory mechanisms for information sharing on potential threats and 
vulnerabilities known to state contractors and v endors providing artificial 
intelligence services regarding those contracted or purchased services, to a 
state entity identified in the California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration 
Playbook. 
(4)  The California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook may include 
voluntary mechanisms for other entities, as appropriate, to eng age in 
information sharing on potential threats and vulnerabilities, to a state entity 
identified in the California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook. 
(5)  Any record or information within a record of the Office of Emergency 
Services that is privileged, protected by copyright, or otherwise prohibited 
by law from being disclosed; that is e xempt from disclosure to the public 
under express provisions of the California Public Records Act (Division 10 
(commencing with Section 7920.000) of Title 1); or in which based on the 
facts of the particular case, the public interest served by not disclosing the 
record clearly outweighs the public interest serv ed by disclosure of the 
record, shall not be disclosed to the public. 
(6)  Notwithstanding an y other la w, an y information related to c yber 
threat indicators or defensive measures for a cybersecurity purpose shared 
in accordance with the California AI Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook 
developed under this subdivision is confidential and shall not be transmitted 
or shared, except to state emplo yees and state contractors who ha ve been 
approved as necessary to recei ve the information and in a manner that 
complies with all other security requirements in the California AI 
Cybersecurity Collaboration Playbook. 
SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that Section 2 of this act, 
which amends Section 8586.5 of the Government Code, imposes a limitation 
on the public’s right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings 
of public officials and agencies within the meaning of Section 3 of Article 
I of the California Constitution. Pursuant to that constitutional pro vision, 
the Legislature makes the follo wing findings to demonstrate the interest 
protected by this limitation and the need for protecting that interest: 
The state has a very strong interest in protecting its information technology 
systems from intrusion because those systems contain confidential 
information and play a critical role in the performance of the duties of state 
government. Thus, information re garding the specific vulnerabilities of 
those systems must be protected to preclude use of that information to 
facilitate attacks on those systems. 
O 
93 
Ch. 285 — 5 — 
  