State of California 
BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE 
Section  22677 
22677. (a)  On a semiannual basis in accordance with subdivision (b), a social media 
company shall submit to the Attorney General a terms of service report. The terms 
of service report shall include, for each social media platform owned or operated by 
the company, all of the following: 
(1)  The current version of the terms of service of the social media platform. 
(2)  If a social media compan y has filed its first report, a complete and detailed 
description of any changes to the terms of service since the previous report. 
(3)  A statement of whether the current version of the terms of service defines each 
of the following categories of content, and, if so, the definitions of those cate gories, 
including any subcategories: 
(A)  Hate speech or racism. 
(B)  Extremism or radicalization. 
(C)  Disinformation or misinformation. 
(D)  Harassment. 
(E)  Foreign political interference. 
(F)  Controlled substance distribution. 
(4)  A detailed description of content moderation practices used by the social media 
company for that platform, including, but not limited to, all of the following: 
(A)  Any existing policies intended to address the categories of content described 
in paragraph (3). 
(B)  How automated content moderation systems enforce terms of service of the 
social media platform and when these systems involve human review. 
(C)  How the social media compan y responds to user reports of violations of the 
terms of service. 
(D)  How the social media compan y would remove individual pieces of content, 
users, or groups that violate the terms of service, or tak e broader action ag ainst 
individual users or against groups of users that violate the terms of service. 
(E)  The languages in which the social media platform does not mak e terms of 
service available, but does offer product features, including, but not limited to, menus 
and prompts. 
(5)  (A)  Information on content that was flagged by the social media company as 
content belonging to any of the categories described in paragraph (3), including all 
of the following: 
(i)  The total number of flagged items of content. 
(ii)  The total number of actioned items of content. 

(iii)  The total number of actioned items of content that resulted in action taken by 
the social media company against the user or group of users responsible for the content. 
(iv)  The total number of actioned items of content that were removed, demonetized, 
or deprioritized by the social media company. 
(v)  The number of times actioned items of content were viewed by users. 
(vi)  The number of times actioned items of content were shared, and the number 
of users that viewed the content before it was actioned. 
(vii)  The number of times users appealed social media company actions taken on 
that platform and the number of reversals of social media company actions on appeal 
disaggregated by each type of action. 
(B)  All information required by subparagraph (A) shall be disaggregated into the 
following categories: 
(i)  The category of content, including any relevant categories described in paragraph 
(3). 
(ii)  The type of content, including, but not limited to, posts, comments, messages, 
profiles of users, or groups of users. 
(iii)  The type of media of the content, including, b ut not limited to, text, images, 
and videos. 
(iv)  How the content was flagged, including, but not limited to, flagged by company 
employees or contractors, flagged by artificial intelligence softw are, flagged by 
community moderators, flagged by civil society partners, and flagged by users. 
(v)  How the content w as actioned, including, b ut not limited to, actioned by 
company employees or contractors, actioned by artificial intelligence software, actioned 
by community moderators, actioned by civil society partners, and actioned by users. 
(b)  (1)  A social media compan y shall electronically submit a semiannual terms 
of service report pursuant to subdi vision (a), covering activity within the third and 
fourth quarters of the preceding calendar year, to the Attorney General no later than 
April 1 of each year , and shall electronically submit a semiannual terms of service 
report pursuant to subdivision (a), covering activity within the first and second quarters 
of the current calendar year, to the Attorney General no later than October 1 of each 
year. 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a social media compan y shall electronically 
submit its first terms of service report pursuant to subdi vision (a), covering activity 
within the third quarter of 2023, to the Attorney General no later than January 1, 2024, 
and shall electronically submit its second terms of service report pursuant to 
subdivision (a), covering activity within the fourth quarter of 2023, to the Attorney 
General no later than April 1, 2024. A social media platform shall submit its third 
report no later than October 1, 2024, in accordance with paragraph (1). 
(c)  The Attorney General shall make all terms of service reports submitted pursuant 
to this section available to the public in a searchable repository on its official internet 
website. 
(Amended by Stats. 2023, Ch. 824, Sec. 2.  (AB 1027)  Effective January 1, 2024.) 