State of California 
BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE 
Section  22757.1 
22757.1. As used in this chapter: 
(a)  “Artificial intelligence” or “AI” means an engineered or machine-based system 
that varies in its le vel of autonomy and that can, for e xplicit or implicit objecti ves, 
infer from the input it recei ves how to generate outputs that can influence ph ysical 
or virtual environments. 
(b)  “Covered provider” means a person that creates, codes, or otherwise produces 
a generative artificial intelligence system that has over 1,000,000 monthly visitors or 
users and is publicly accessible within the geographic boundaries of the state. 
(c)  “Generative artificial intelligence system” or “GenAI system” means an artificial 
intelligence that can generate derived synthetic content, including text, images, video, 
and audio, that emulates the structure and characteristics of the system’s training data. 
(d)  “Latent” means present but not manifest. 
(e)  “Manifest” means easily percei ved, understood, or recognized by a natural 
person. 
(f)  “Metadata” means structural or descriptive information about data. 
(g)  “Personal information” has the same meaning as defined in Section 1798.140 
of the Civil Code. 
(h)  “Personal provenance data” means provenance data that contains either of the 
following: 
(1)  Personal information. 
(2)  Unique device, system, or service information that is reasonably capable of 
being associated with a particular user. 
(i)  “Provenance data” means data that is embedded into digital content, or that is 
included in the digital content’ s metadata, for the purpose of v erifying the digital 
content’s authenticity, origin, or history of modification. 
(j)  “System provenance data” means provenance data that is not reasonably capable 
of being associated with a particular user and that contains either of the following: 
(1)  Information regarding the type of device, system, or service that w as used to 
generate a piece of digital content. 
(2)  Information related to content authenticity. 
(Added by Stats. 2024, Ch. 291, Sec. 1.  (SB 942)  Ef fective January 1, 2025.  Operati ve January 1, 
2026, pursuant to Section 22757.6.) 