State of California 
BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE 
Section  22675 
22675. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply: 
(a)  “Actioned” means a social media compan y, due to a suspected or confirmed 
violation of the terms of service, has tak en some form of action, including, b ut not 
limited to, removal, demonetization, deprioritization, or banning, against the relevant 
user or relevant item of content. 
(b)  “Artificial intelligence” has the same definition as in Section 11546.45.5 of 
the Government Code. 
(c)  (1)  “Content” means statements or comments made by users and media that 
are created, posted, shared, or otherwise interacted with by users on an internet-based 
service or application. 
(2)  “Content” does not include media put on a service or application e xclusively 
for the purpose of cloud storage, transmitting files, or file collaboration. 
(d)  “Public or semipublic internet-based service or application” excludes a service 
or application used to facilitate communication within a business or enterprise among 
employees or affiliates of the business or enterprise, provided that access to the service 
or application is restricted to emplo yees or affiliates of the b usiness or enterprise 
using the service or application. 
(e)  “Social media company” means a person or entity that o wns or operates one 
or more social media platforms. 
(f)  “Social media platform” means a public or semipublic internet-based service 
or application that has users in California and that meets both of the following criteria: 
(1)  (A)  A substantial function of the service or application is to connect users in 
order to allo w users to interact socially with each other within the service or 
application. 
(B)  A service or application that provides email or direct messaging services shall 
not be considered to meet this criterion on the basis of that function alone. 
(2)  The service or application allows users to do all of the following: 
(A)  Construct a public or semipublic profile for purposes of signing into and using 
the service or application. 
(B)  Populate a list of other users with whom an individual shares a social connection 
within the system. 
(C)  Create or post content viewable by other users, including, b ut not limited to, 
on message boards, in chat rooms, or through a landing page or main feed that presents 
the user with content generated by other users. 
(g)  “Terms of service” means a policy or set of policies adopted by a social media 
company that specifies, at least, the user behavior and activities that are permitted on 

the internet-based service owned or operated by the social media compan y, and the 
user behavior and activities that may subject the user or an item of content to being 
actioned. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 843, Sec. 1.  (AB 2885)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 