State of California 
BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE 
Section  6145 
6145. (a)  The board shall engage the services of an independent national or regional 
public accounting firm with at least five years of experience in governmental auditing 
for an audit of its financial statement for each fiscal year . The financial statement 
shall be promptly certified under oath by the chief financial officer of the State Bar , 
and a cop y of the audit and financial statement shall be submitted annually , on or 
before May 31, to the board, to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and to the 
Assembly and Senate Committees on Judiciary. 
The audit also shall examine the receipts and expenditures of the State Bar to ensure 
that the funds collected on behalf of the Conference of Dele gates of California Bar 
Associations as the independent successor entity to the former Conference of Delegates 
of the State Bar are con veyed to that entity , that the State Bar has been paid or 
reimbursed for the full cost of an y administrative and support services pro vided to 
the successor entity, including the collection of fees or donations on its behalf, and 
that no mandatory fees are being used to fund the activities of the successor entity. 
In selecting the accounting firm, the board shall consider the v alue of continuity, 
along with the risk that continued long-term engagements of an accounting firm may 
affect the independence of that firm. 
(b)  The board shall contract with the California State Auditor’s Office to conduct 
a performance audit of the State Bar’s operations from July 1, 2000, to December 31, 
2000, inclusive. A copy of the performance audit shall be submitted by May 1, 2001, 
to the board, to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and to the Assembly and 
Senate Committees on Judiciary. 
Every tw o years thereafter , the board shall contract with the California State 
Auditor’s Office to conduct a performance audit of the State Bar’s operations for the 
respective fiscal year , commencing with January 1, 2002, to December 31, 2002, 
inclusive. A copy of the performance audit shall be submitted within 120 days of the 
close of the fiscal year for which the audit w as performed to the board, to the Chief 
Justice of the Supreme Court, and to the Assembly and Senate Committees on 
Judiciary. 
For the purposes of this subdi vision, the California State Auditor’s Office may 
contract with a third party to conduct the performance audit. This subdivision is not 
intended to reduce the number of audits the California State Auditor’s Office may 
otherwise be able to conduct. 
(c)  (1)  For the 2023 audit required pursuant to subdivision (b), the California State 
Auditor’s Office shall conduct a performance audit of the State Bar as set forth in this 
subdivision. The State Bar shall provide technical assistance, data, or information as 

requested by the California State Auditor. It is the intent of the Le gislature that this 
audit may be re viewed in conjunction with the le gislation that authorizes the State 
Bar’s licensing fee in 2023. 
(2)  The audit shall e valuate each program or di vision of the State Bar recei ving 
support from the annual State Bar licensing fees and other fees required of active and 
inactive licensees. 
(3)  The audit shall, at minimum, include all of the following for each program or 
division described by paragraph (2): 
(A)  An assessment of ho w much fee re venue, staff, and resources are currently 
budgeted and subsequently expended to perform existing tasks and responsibilities. 
(B)  An assessment of whether the State Bar has appropriate program performance 
measures in place and how these measures are used for budgeting purposes. 
(C)  An assessment of the usage of any real property sold by the State Bar. 
(D)  A review of the State Bar’s cost allocation plan used to allocate administrative 
costs. 
(E)  A review of an y proposals for additional funding or resources requested by 
the State Bar to determine whether these proposals are necessary to meet the State 
Bar’s public protection function, as well as the accurac y of identified associated 
funding needs, after reviewing how existing resources are used. 
(F)  A calculation of how much fee revenue would be needed from each State Bar 
active and inactive licensee to fully of fset State Bar costs to perform e xisting tasks 
and responsibilities and to support additional proposed e xpenditures determined to 
be necessary to meet the State Bar’s public protection function. This calculation shall 
take into account an y proposed b usiness process reengineering, reallocations, or 
efficiencies identified by the California State Auditor. 
(4)  The audit shall include an evaluation of how the State Bar administers discipline 
cases that require an outside investigator or prosecutor and how that process can be 
improved, including the cost-effectiveness and timeliness of such investigations and 
prosecutions. 
(5)  The audit required by this subdi vision shall be submitted by April 15, 2023, 
to the board of trustees, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and to the Assembly 
and Senate Committees on Judiciary. 
(6)  The State Bar shall use e xisting resources to reimb urse the California State 
Auditor’s Office for the costs of conducting the audit required by this subdivision. 
(d)  (1)  The California State Auditor shall conduct an audit of the February 2025 
bar exam to evaluate the administration of the February 2025 bar exam and how the 
problems with the exam occurred. 
(2)  The audit required by this subdivision shall do all of the following: 
(A)  Evaluate the bidding and contracting process that the State Bar eng aged in 
that led to a warding the contract to Proctor U, Inc., doing b usiness as Meazure 
Learning, as well as the final terms of the contract, and determine the following: 
(i)  Whether the process w as conducted according to e xisting laws, regulations, 
and policies. 

(ii)  What evaluation criteria were used to determine whether Meazure Learning 
had experience with, and w as capable of, conducting an e xamination similar to the 
State Bar examination. 
(iii)  Whether the State Bar appropriately e valuated and authorized an y changes, 
including cost changes, to the executed contract. 
(iv)  Whether there were appropriate protections from, and e valuations of, an y 
potential conflicts of interest that may have existed between relevant staff at the State 
Bar and Meazure Learning. 
(B)  Evaluate the bidding and contracting process that the State Bar engaged in that 
led to a warding the contract to Kaplan, Inc. for administration of the State Bar 
examination multiple choice questions, as well as the final terms of the contract for 
those services, and determine all of the following: 
(i)  Whether the processes were conducted according to existing laws, regulations, 
and policies. 
(ii)  What e valuation criteria w as used to determine whether Kaplan, Inc. had 
experience with, and w as capable of, creating rele vant and appropriate questions 
similar to existing comparable entities like the National Conference of Bar Examiners. 
(iii)  Whether the terms of the contract allowed for oversight and monitoring of the 
question development process, and whether the State Bar appropriately utilized its 
oversight and monitoring to ensure that sufficient processes were engaged in to develop 
questions, ensure accuracy, and ensure fairness in the question development. 
(iv)  Why Kaplan, Inc. pro vided 100 multiple choice questions for the February 
2025 bar exam, instead of 200. 
(C)  Evaluate the process that the State Bar eng aged in leading up to the 
administration of the February 2025 State Bar e xamination to ensure that the 
examination was conducted in a way that allowed participants to engage fairly in the 
examination process, and determine all of the following: 
(i)  When and how the State Bar became aware of any potential problems with the 
administration of the e xamination, including limits or problems with e xamination 
locations, and how those potential problems were addressed. 
(ii)  How the process for remote examination employed for the February 2025 State 
Bar examination differed from the processes used for remote examination during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, and the reasons for those differences. 
(iii)  The process and reasoning for determining that a mak eup examination date 
should be offered, and the timeline for making that determination. 
(iv)  The process for determining what specific equipment would be permitted for 
test-takers, such as white boards, and the reasoning and processes utilized to mak e 
any changes to those requirements leading up to the examination date. 
(D)  Evaluate the events that led the State Bar to use artificial intelligence to create 
multiple choice questions for use on the February 2025 State Bar e xamination, 
including all of the following: 
(i)  When the decision was made. 
(ii)  Who or what department made the decision. 
(iii)  The rationale for making the decision. 

(iv)  When executive leadership at the State Bar kne w that artificial intelligence 
was used to create questions for the February 2025 State Bar examination. 
(v)  What evaluation criteria were used to ensure that the questions were correct 
and appropriate for use on the February 2025 State Bar examination. 
(vi)  What deficiencies in o versight by e xecutive leadership at the Office of 
Admissions existed, if any, and how have any such deficiencies been remedied. 
(E)  (i)  Itemize the State Bar costs arising from administration of the February 
2025 State Bar examination, including, but not limited to, costs arising from existing 
contracts, legal representation, remedies provided to takers of the February 2025 State 
Bar examination, and an y other associated costs. The costs itemized in this clause 
should include money already spent, money the State Bar is legally obligated to spend 
going forward, and other anticipated costs. 
(ii)  Identify how much money the State Bar claimed it w ould save by using the 
February 2025 State Bar examination format and compare that amount to the total of 
the costs itemized pursuant to clause (i). 
(3)  The audit required by this subdi vision shall be submitted as soon as possible 
to the board of trustees, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and to the Assembly 
and Senate Committees on Judiciary pursuant to Section 9795 of the Go vernment 
Code. 
(4)  Notwithstanding Section 8544.5 of the Go vernment Code or an y other la w, 
the costs of conducting the audit required by this subdi vision shall not be paid from 
the State Audit Fund. The State Bar shall use e xisting resources to pro vide the 
California State Auditor with the funding necessary to cover the costs of the audit. 
(Amended by Stats. 2025, Ch. 209, Sec. 1.  (SB 47)  Effective October 1, 2025.) 