State of California 
CIVIL CODE 
Section  3111 
3111. On or before January 1, 2026, and before each time thereafter that a generative 
artificial intelligence system or service, or a substantial modification to a generative 
artificial intelligence system or service, released on or after January 1, 2022, is made 
publicly available to Californians for use, regardless of whether the terms of that use 
include compensation, the de veloper of the system or service shall post on the 
developer’s internet website documentation regarding the data used by the developer 
to train the generative artificial intelligence system or service, including, b ut not be 
limited to, all of the following: 
(a)  A high-level summary of the datasets used in the development of the generative 
artificial intelligence system or service, including, but not limited to: 
(1)  The sources or owners of the datasets. 
(2)  A description of how the datasets further the intended purpose of the artificial 
intelligence system or service. 
(3)  The number of data points included in the datasets, which may be in general 
ranges, and with estimated figures for dynamic datasets. 
(4)  A description of the types of data points within the datasets. F or purposes of 
this paragraph, the following definitions apply: 
(A)  As applied to datasets that include labels, “types of data points” means the 
types of labels used. 
(B)  As applied to datasets without labeling, “types of data points” refers to the 
general characteristics. 
(5)  Whether the datasets include an y data protected by cop yright, trademark, or 
patent, or whether the datasets are entirely in the public domain. 
(6)  Whether the datasets were purchased or licensed by the developer. 
(7)  Whether the datasets include personal information, as defined in subdi vision 
(v) of Section 1798.140. 
(8)  Whether the datasets include aggre gate consumer information, as defined in 
subdivision (b) of Section 1798.140. 
(9)  Whether there w as an y cleaning, processing, or other modification to the 
datasets by the developer, including the intended purpose of those efforts in relation 
to the artificial intelligence system or service. 
(10)  The time period during which the data in the datasets were collected, including 
a notice if the data collection is ongoing. 
(11)  The dates the datasets were first used during the development of the artificial 
intelligence system or service. 

(12)  Whether the generati ve artificial intelligence system or service used or 
continuously uses synthetic data generation in its de velopment. A developer may 
include a description of the functional need or desired purpose of the synthetic data 
in relation to the intended purpose of the system or service. 
(b)  A developer shall not be required to post documentation re garding the data 
used to train a generati ve artificial intelligence system or service for an y of the 
following: 
(1)  A generative artificial intelligence system or service whose sole purpose is to 
help ensure security and inte grity. F or purposes of this paragraph, “security and 
integrity” has the same meaning as defined in subdivision (ac) of Section 1798.140, 
except as applied to an y developer or user and not limited to b usinesses, as defined 
in subdivision (d) of that section. 
(2)  A generative artificial intelligence system or service whose sole purpose is the 
operation of aircraft in the national airspace. 
(3)  A generative artificial intelligence system or service de veloped for national 
security, military, or defense purposes that is made available only to a federal entity. 
(Added by Stats. 2024, Ch. 817, Sec. 1.  (AB 2013)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 