State of California 
EDUCATION CODE 
Section  33328.5 
33328.5. (a)  For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply: 
(1)  “Artificial intelligence” means an engineered or machine-based system that 
varies in its level of autonomy and that can, for explicit or implicit objectives, infer, 
from the input it recei ves, how to generate outputs that can influence ph ysical or 
virtual environments. 
(2)  “Educator” means a certificated or classified employee of a local educational 
agency or charter school. 
(3)  “Local educational agenc y” means a school district or county office of 
education. 
(b)  The Superintendent shall con vene a w orking group for all of the follo wing 
purposes: 
(1)  Developing guidance on the safe and effective use of artificial intelligence in 
ways that benefit, and do not harm, pupils and educators. 
(2)  Developing a model policy, reflecting available research, for local educational 
agencies and charter schools re garding the safe and ef fective use of artificial 
intelligence in ways that benefit, and do not ne gatively impact, educational quality, 
pupil critical thinking and writing skills, creativity, and the essential work of educators. 
(3)  Identifying other ways in which the state can support educators in developing 
and sharing effective practices involving artificial intelligence that minimize risk and 
maximize benefits to pupils and educators. 
(c)  (1)  The working group shall include all of the following: 
(A)  Current, credentialed public school teachers serving in elementary and 
secondary teaching positions. 
(B)  Classified public school staff. 
(C)  Schoolsite administrators. 
(D)  School district or county office of education administrators. 
(E)  University and community college faculty, including academics with expertise 
in artificial intelligence and its uses in education. 
(F)  Representatives of private sector business or industry, with expertise in artificial 
intelligence and its uses in education. 
(G)  Pupils enrolled in public school. 
(2)  At least one-half of the workgroup shall be composed of current, credentialed 
public school teachers serving in elementary and secondary teaching positions with 
knowledge of the use of artificial intelligence in education. 
(d)  The working group shall do all of the following: 

(1)  (A)  Assess the current and future state of artificial intelligence use in education, 
including both of the following: 
(i)  The current state of artificial intelligence used by local educational agencies 
and charter schools, including all of the following: 
(I)  Technologies most commonly in use. 
(II)  The typical cost of those technologies. 
(III)  The ownership structure of those technologies. 
(IV)  The ownership structure of pupil- and employee-created materials. 
(V)  The licensing agreements for those technologies. 
(VI)  The ability to access source code for those technologies. 
(VII)  The degree to which educators were involved in the decision to use artificial 
intelligence. 
(VIII)  Artificial intelligence as a topic of instruction in developing class content. 
(ii)  Anticipated and potential developments in artificial intelligence technology in 
education. 
(B)  (i)  Conduct at least three public meetings to incorporate feedback from pupils, 
families, and relevant stakeholders into the assessment required by subparagraph (A). 
(ii)  Public meetings held pursuant to clause (i) may be held by teleconference, 
pursuant to the procedures required by Section 11123 of the Go vernment Code, for 
the benefit of the public and the working group. 
(2)  (A)  Detail current uses of artificial intelligence in education settings including 
through the identification of all of the following: 
(i)  Examples of human-centered artificial intelligence that aid, further, and improve 
teaching and learning, including in w ays that do not e xacerbate existing inequities, 
and the work of educators. 
(ii)  Examples of human replacement artificial intelligence that could ne gatively 
impact pupil development, jeopardize pupil data security, or risk the jobs of educators. 
(iii)  Examples of strategies to ensure that there are opportunities for stakeholders 
to of fer meaningful feedback before an y gi ven form of artificial intelligence is 
introduced to pupils or educators. 
(B)  In performing the work required by this subdivision, the working group shall 
solicit input from educators and pupils on their e xperience using the technologies 
identified in subparagraph (A). 
(3)  On or before January 1, 2026, develop guidance for local educational agencies 
and charter schools on the safe use of artificial intelligence in education that addresses 
all of the following: 
(A)  Academic integrity and plagiarism. 
(B)  Acceptable and unacceptable uses of artificial intelligence for pupils and 
educators. 
(C)  Pupil and educator data privacy and data security. 
(D)  Parent and guardian access to information that pupils enter into artificial 
intelligence systems. 
(E)  Procurement of softw are that ensures the safety and pri vacy of pupils and 
educators, and the protection of their data. 

(4)  On or before July 1, 2026, develop a model policy for local educational agencies 
and charter schools re garding the safe and ef fective use of artificial intelligence in 
ways that benefit, and do not ne gatively impact, pupils and educators. This policy 
shall include all of the following topics: 
(A)  Academic integrity and plagiarism. 
(B)  Acceptable and unacceptable uses of artificial intelligence for pupils and 
educators. 
(C)  Pupil and educator data privacy and data security. 
(D)  Parent and guardian access to pupil information. 
(E)  Procurement of softw are that ensures the safety and pri vacy of pupils and 
educators and their data. 
(F)  Effective use of artificial intelligence to support, and a void risk to, teaching 
and learning. 
(G)  Effective practices to support, and avoid risk to, educators and pupils. 
(H)  Strategies to ensure that artificial intelligence does not e xacerbate existing 
inequities in the education system. 
(I)  Professional de velopment strate gies for educators on the use of artificial 
intelligence. 
(5)  Identify other ways in which the state can support educators in developing and 
sharing effective practices that minimize risk and maximize benefits to pupils and 
educators, including, but not limited to, establishing communities of practice on the 
use of artificial intelligence in education. 
(6)  On or before January 1, 2027, submit a report to the appropriate polic y and 
fiscal committees of the Le gislature, in compliance with Section 9795 of the 
Government Code, presenting the assessment required by paragraph (1) and an y 
findings or recommendations related to the assessment. 
(e)  The department shall post on its internet website the guidance de veloped 
pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (d) and the model policy for local educational 
agencies and charter schools developed pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d). 
(f)  The working group shall be subject to the Bagle y-Keene Open Meeting Act 
(Article 9 (commencing with Section 11120) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 3 of 
Title 2 of the Government Code). 
(g)  The working group shall be dissolved upon submission of the report required 
by paragraph (6) of subdivision (d) to the Legislature. 
(h)  This section shall remain in ef fect only until January 1, 2031, and as of that 
date is repealed. 
(Added by Stats. 2024, Ch. 893, Sec. 2.  (SB 1288)  Effective January 1, 2025.  Repealed as of January 
1, 2031, by its own provisions.) 