State of California
EDUCATION CODE
Section  92985.5
92985.5. (a)  In April 2013, President Obama unveiled the Brain Research through
Advancing Inno vative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiati ve — a collaborati ve
program that will map the acti vity of e very neuron in the human brain with a
programmed total in vestment of more than three hundred million dollars
($300,000,000) per year over 10 years.
(b)  The BRAIN Initiative is launching with approximately one hundred ten million
dollars ($110,000,000) in funding for research in 2014, as well as additional pri vate
sector investment from institutes and foundations based in California.
(c)  California is poised to be a w orld leader in this research ef fort gi ven the
prominent role of scientists and industry leaders throughout the state.
(d)  Four of the six scientists who proposed the BRAIN Initiative and six of the 15
members of the Advisory Committee to the Director of the National Institutes of
Health for the BRAIN Initiative are from California.
(e)  Some California-based corporations ha ve indicated the y are interested in
collaborating with brain research institutions on research for the BRAIN Initiative to
bring new discoveries to the marketplace.
(f)  The BRAIN Initiative has the potential to be a major dri ver of new industries
and jobs in biotechnology , artificial intelligence, and information technologies, as
well as a catalyst for major breakthroughs in brain-related diseases, injuries, and
illnesses, including Alzheimer’s disease, which is programmed to cost California over
thirty billion dollars ($30,000,000,000) a year by 2030.
(g)  The products of scientific research improve the quality of our lives and health
and pro vide us with high-quality jobs that emplo y and demand a highly skilled
workforce.
(h)  Given California’s assets and capacity for collaboration, entrepreneurship, and
innovation, a state investment to expand and accelerate this research in the state and
to promote the translation of breakthroughs into the mark etplace is an important
investment in the intellectual infrastructure for California’s economic future.
(Added by Stats. 2014, Ch. 34, Sec. 32.  (SB 860)  Effective June 20, 2014.)