State of California 
GOVERNMENT CODE 
Section  53083.1 
53083.1. (a)  On and after January 1, 2020, each local agency shall, before approving 
any economic de velopment subsidy for a w arehouse distribution center within its 
jurisdiction, and instead of complying with Section 53083, provide all of the following 
information in written form available to the public, and through its internet website, 
if applicable: 
(1)  The name and address of all corporations, including members of a commonly 
controlled group or members of a combined reporting group of which the corporation 
is a member, or any other business entities, except for sole proprietorships, that are 
the beneficiary of the economic development subsidy. 
(2)  The name and address of all w arehouse distrib ution centers that are the 
beneficiary of the economic development subsidy. 
(3)  The start and end dates and schedule, if applicable, for the economic 
development subsidy. 
(4)  A description of the economic de velopment subsidy, including the estimated 
total amount of the e xpenditure of public funds by , or of re venue lost to, the local 
agency as a result of the economic development subsidy. 
(5)  A statement of the public purposes for the economic development subsidy. 
(6)  The projected tax re venue to the local agenc y as a result of the economic 
development subsidy. 
(7)  The estimated number of jobs created by the economic development subsidy, 
including wage scale, broken down by full-time, part-time, and temporary positions. 
(8)  The estimated number of workers employed through temporary agencies. 
(9)  Whether an y benefit package is of fered, including health benefits, fringe 
benefits, and defined benefit pensions. 
(10)  Both of the following regarding each warehouse distribution center that is the 
beneficiary of the economic development subsidy: 
(A)  A description of the outreach, training, and hiring plans, including plans to 
hire disadvantaged workers. 
(B)  A description and total v alue of any state or federal subsidies in the process 
of being applied for, or received by, the warehouse distribution center. 
(11)  A description of any accountability measures, including, b ut not limited to, 
clawbacks of subsidies, provided in the contract if the warehouse distribution center 
does not meet the goal outlined in the contract for subsidies. 
(b)  Before granting an economic development subsidy to a warehouse distribution 
center, each local agency shall provide public notice and conduct a hearing regarding 
the economic development subsidy. A public hearing and notice under this subdivision 

is not required if a hearing and notice re garding the economic development subsidy 
is otherwise required by law. 
(c)  The information required to be provided in subdivision (a) shall remain available 
and easily accessible to the public under e xisting state and federal la w and shall be 
posted on the local agency’s internet website, if applicable, for the entire term of the 
economic development subsidy. 
(d)  The local agency, after the action granting an economic development subsidy 
for a warehouse distribution center on or after January 1, 2020, shall issue an annual 
report during the term of the economic de velopment subsidy for each economic 
development subsidy. The local agency shall make the report available to the public 
and through its internet website, if applicable. The report shall contain the information 
described in subdivision (a). The report shall also contain the following information, 
if applicable: 
(1)  The net tax revenue accruing to the local agenc y as a result of the economic 
development subsidy. 
(2)  The net number of jobs created by the economic development subsidy, including 
wage scales, broken down by full-time, part-time, and temporary positions. 
(3)  The number of workers employed through temporary agencies. 
(4)  Whether an y benefit package is of fered, including health benefits, fringe 
benefits, and defined benefit pensions. 
(5)  The number of disadvantaged workers employed, if known. 
(6)  Any net job loss or replacement due to the use of automation, artificial 
intelligence, or other technologies, if known. 
(7)  For each warehouse distribution center that is the beneficiary of the economic 
development subsidy, the retention rate of employees broken down by full-time and 
part-time positions, and whether the turnover rate of employees exceeds 20 percent. 
(e)  The local agency, after an action granting an economic de velopment subsidy 
for a warehouse distribution center on or after January 1, 2020, shall hold an annual 
public hearing during the term of the economic development subsidy to consider any 
written or oral comments on the information contained in the report prepared pursuant 
to subdivision (d). 
(f)  Each public hearing required by this section shall be consolidated with a local 
agency’s regularly scheduled hearing. 
(g)  (1)  The local agency shall submit the reports required in subdivisions (a) and 
(d) to the Governor’s Office of Business and Economic Development. 
(2)  The Governor’s Office of Business and Economic De velopment shall mak e 
each report submitted under paragraph (1) available to the public, and available through 
its internet website. 
(h)  A local agency shall not sign a nondisclosure agreement regarding a warehouse 
distribution center within its jurisdiction as part of negotiations or in the contract for 
any economic development subsidy. 
(i)  A warehouse distribution center shall provide a local agency any information 
necessary to comply with this section. 
(j)  As used in this section: 

(1)  “Artificial intelligence” has the same definition as in Section 11546.45.5 of 
the Government Code. 
(2)  “Disadvantaged worker” means an emplo yee of the w arehouse distribution 
center who satisfies any of the following: 
(A)  Was unemployed for the 6 months immediately preceding emplo yment with 
the warehouse distribution center. In the case of an employee that completed a program 
of study at a college, university, or other postsecondary educational institution, received 
a baccalaureate, postgraduate, or professional degree, and was unemployed for the 6 
months immediately preceding employment with the warehouse distribution center, 
that employee must have completed that program of study at least 12 months before 
the indi vidual’s commencement of emplo yment with the w arehouse distrib ution 
center. 
(B)  Is a v eteran who separated from service in the Armed Forces of the United 
States within the 12 months preceding commencement of emplo yment with the 
warehouse distribution center. 
(C)  Was a recipient of the credit allowed under Section 32 of the Internal Revenue 
Code, relating to earned income, as applicable for federal purposes, for the previous 
taxable year. 
(D)  Is an ex-offender previously convicted of a felony. 
(E)  Is a recipient of either CalWORKs, in accordance with Article 2 (commencing 
with Section 11250) of Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions 
Code, or general assistance, in accordance with Section 17000.5 of the Welfare and 
Institutions Code. 
(3)  “Economic development subsidy” means an y expenditure of public funds or 
loss of re venue to a local agenc y in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or more, for the purpose of stimulating economic development within the 
jurisdiction of a local agency, including, but not limited to, bonds, grants, loans, loan 
guarantees, fee w aivers, land price subsidies, matching funds, tax abatements, tax 
exemptions, and tax credits. “Economic de velopment subsidy” shall not include 
expenditures of public funds by, or loss of revenue to, the local agency for the purpose 
of providing housing affordable to persons and families of low or moderate income, 
as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code. 
(4)  “Local agenc y” means a city , including a charter city , county, or city and 
county. 
(5)  “Members of a combined reporting group” has the same meaning as that term 
is defined in paragraph (3) of subdi vision (b) of Section 25106.5 of Title 18 of the 
California Code of Regulations, as that section read on January 1, 2019. 
(6)  “Members of a commonly controlled group” has the same meaning as that term 
is defined in Section 25105 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. 
(7)  “Warehouse distribution center” means an establishment as defined by any of 
the following North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes: 
(A)  493110 for General Warehousing and Storage. 
(B)  423 for Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods. 

(C)  424 for Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable Goods. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 843, Sec. 5.  (AB 2885)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 