State of California 
GOVERNMENT CODE 
Section  11549.63 
11549.63. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following: 
(a)  The Legislature recognizes the tremendous potential of artificial intelligence 
(AI) to improve the lives of its citizens and the functioning of government. However, 
the Legislature also recognizes that the use of AI must be guided by principles of 
fairness, transparenc y, pri vacy, and accountability to ensure that the rights and 
opportunities of all Californians are protected in the age of artificial intelligence. 
(b)  The Legislature further recognizes that generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) 
enables significant, beneficial uses through its unique capabilities, but GenAI raises 
novel risks compared to conventional AI across critical areas, including democratic 
and legal processes, biases and equity , public health and safety , and the economy , 
and requires measures to address insufficiently guarded go vernmental systems and 
unintended or emergent harmful effects from this technology. Additionally, because 
humans have explicit and implicit biases built into our society, GenAI has the capacity 
to amplify these biases as it learns from input data. Therefore, it is imperati ve to 
consider the implications on Californians of, among other categories, different regions, 
income, races, ethnicities, gender, ages, religions, abilities, and sexual orientation for 
all GenAI inputs, outputs, and products for both prioritizing implementations that 
may promote equity and guarding against bias and other negative impacts. 
(c)  No individual or group should be discriminated ag ainst on the basis of race, 
gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, or any other protected characteristic in the 
design, development, deployment, or use of AI systems. The unprecedented speed of 
innovation and deployment of GenAI technologies necessitates proactive guardrails 
to protect ag ainst potential risks or malicious uses, including, b ut not limited to, 
bioterrorism, c yberattacks, disinformation, deception, violation of pri vacy, and 
discrimination or bias. 
(d)  The Legislature affirms the importance of transparenc y in the use of GenAI 
systems. The public has the right to know when they are interacting with GenAI being 
used by the state and to have an accessible identification of that interaction. 
(e)  The Legislature recognizes that the use of GenAI systems must be consistent 
with the protection of privacy and civil liberties and must be guided by a commitment 
to equity and social justice. It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this legislation 
that all GenAI systems be designed and deployed in a manner that is consistent with 
state and federal la ws and re gulations re garding pri vacy and ci vil liberties and 
minimizes bias and promotes equitable outcomes for all Californians. 
(f)  This act, in addition to the 2022 White House Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights, 
executive guidance from the go vernor, statutory or re gulatory requirements, and 

evolving best practices should guide the decisionmaking of state agencies, departments, 
and subdivisions in the review, adoption, management, governance, and regulations 
of automated decisionmaking technologies. 
(g)  Public-private cross-sectional partnerships should be established to train students 
to meet the GenAI w orkforce development needs of the state, including pro viding 
instruction on AI and related ethical, pri vacy, and security considerations while 
advancing research on best practices. Further, there is the need for the state to recruit, 
retain, and train GenAI professionals in certain state jobs, and agencies should 
collaborate to facilitate a pipeline and infrastructure to accomplish that goal. 
(h)  State agencies, departments, and boards should utilize their authority to protect 
consumers, patients, passengers, and students from fraud, discrimination, and threats 
to privacy and to address other risks that may arise from the use of GenAI, including 
risks to financial stability. State agencies, departments, and boards should consider 
rulemaking and emphasize or clarify if e xisting regulations and guidance apply to 
GenAI or other automated decisionmaking systems. 
(Added by Stats. 2024, Ch. 928, Sec. 2.  (SB 896)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 