State of California 
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE 
Section  1367.01 
1367.01. (a)  A health care service plan and an y entity with which it contracts for 
services that include utilization re view or utilization management functions, that 
prospectively, retrospectively, or concurrently reviews and approves, modifies, delays, 
or denies, based in whole or in part on medical necessity, requests by providers prior 
to, retrospectively, or concurrent with the provision of health care services to enrollees, 
or that delegates these functions to medical groups or independent practice associations 
or to other contracting providers, shall comply with this section. 
(b)  A health care service plan that is subject to this section shall ha ve written 
policies and procedures establishing the process by which the plan prospecti vely, 
retrospectively, or concurrently re views and appro ves, modifies, delays, or denies, 
based in whole or in part on medical necessity , requests by providers of health care 
services for plan enrollees. These policies and procedures shall ensure that decisions 
based on the medical necessity of proposed health care services are consistent with 
criteria or guidelines that are supported by clinical principles and processes. These 
criteria and guidelines shall be developed pursuant to Section 1363.5. These policies 
and procedures, and a description of the process by which the plan re views and 
approves, modifies, delays, or denies requests by pro viders prior to, retrospectively, 
or concurrent with the pro vision of health care services to enrollees, shall be filed 
with the director for re view and appro val, and shall be disclosed by the plan to 
providers and enrollees upon request, and by the plan to the public upon request. 
(c)  A health care service plan subject to this section, except a plan that meets the 
requirements of Section 1351.2, shall emplo y or designate a medical director who 
holds an unrestricted license to practice medicine in this state issued pursuant to 
Section 2050 of the Business and Professions Code or pursuant to the Osteopathic 
Act, or, if the plan is a specialized health care service plan, a clinical director with 
California licensure in a clinical area appropriate to the type of care provided by the 
specialized health care service plan. The medical director or clinical director shall 
ensure that the process by which the plan reviews and approves, modifies, or denies, 
based in whole or in part on medical necessity , requests by pro viders prior to, 
retrospectively, or concurrent with the provision of health care services to enrollees, 
complies with the requirements of this section. 
(d)  If health plan personnel, or indi viduals under contract to the plan to re view 
requests by pro viders, approve the pro vider’s request, pursuant to subdi vision (b), 
the decision shall be communicated to the provider pursuant to subdivision (h). 
(e)  No indi vidual, other than a licensed ph ysician or a licensed health care 
professional who is competent to evaluate the specific clinical issues involved in the 

health care services requested by the pro vider, may den y or modify requests for 
authorization of health care services for an enrollee for reasons of medical necessity. 
The decision of the physician or other health care professional shall be communicated 
to the provider and the enrollee pursuant to subdivision (h). 
(f)  The criteria or guidelines used by the health care service plan to determine 
whether to approve, modify, or deny requests by providers prior to, retrospectively, 
or concurrent with, the provision of health care services to enrollees shall be consistent 
with clinical principles and processes. These criteria and guidelines shall be developed 
pursuant to the requirements of Section 1363.5. 
(g)  If the health care service plan requests medical information from providers in 
order to determine whether to appro ve, modify, or deny requests for authorization, 
the plan shall request only the information reasonably necessary to mak e the 
determination. 
(h)  In determining whether to approve, modify, or deny requests by providers prior 
to, retrospectively, or concurrent with the provision of health care services to enrollees, 
based in whole or in part on medical necessity , a health care service plan subject to 
this section shall meet the following requirements: 
(1)  Decisions to approve, modify, or deny, based on medical necessity , requests 
by providers prior to, or concurrent with the pro vision of health care services to 
enrollees that do not meet the requirements for the time period for re view required 
by paragraph (2), shall be made in a timely f ashion appropriate for the nature of the 
enrollee’s condition, not to e xceed five business days from the plan’s receipt of the 
information reasonably necessary and requested by the plan to make the determination. 
In cases where the review is retrospective, the decision shall be communicated to the 
individual who received services, or to the indi vidual’s designee, within 30 days of 
the receipt of information that is reasonably necessary to mak e this determination, 
and shall be communicated to the provider in a manner that is consistent with current 
law. For purposes of this section, retrospective reviews shall be for care rendered on 
or after January 1, 2000. 
(2)  When the enrollee’s condition is such that the enrollee faces an imminent and 
serious threat to the enrollee’s health, including, but not limited to, the potential loss 
of life, limb, or other major bodily function, or the normal timeframe for the 
decisionmaking process, as described in paragraph (1), w ould be detrimental to the 
enrollee’s life or health or could jeopardize the enrollee’s ability to regain maximum 
function, decisions to appro ve, modify, or den y requests by pro viders prior to, or 
concurrent with, the provision of health care services to enrollees, shall be made in 
a timely fashion appropriate for the nature of the enrollee’s condition, not to exceed 
72 hours or, if shorter, the period of time required under Section 2719 of the federal 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 300gg-19) and an y subsequent rules or 
regulations issued thereunder, after the plan’s receipt of the information reasonably 
necessary and requested by the plan to make the determination. Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to alter the requirements of subdi vision (b) of Section 1371.4. 
Notwithstanding Section 1371.4, the requirements of this division shall be applicable 

to all health plans and other entities conducting utilization re view or utilization 
management. 
(3)  Decisions to approve, modify, or deny requests by providers for authorization 
prior to, or concurrent with, the provision of health care services to enrollees shall be 
communicated to the requesting provider within 24 hours of the decision. Except for 
concurrent re view decisions pertaining to care that is underw ay, which shall be 
communicated to the enrollee’s treating provider within 24 hours, decisions resulting 
in denial, delay, or modification of all or part of the requested health care service shall 
be communicated to the enrollee in writing within two business days of the decision. 
In the case of concurrent re view, care shall not be discontinued until the enrollee’ s 
treating provider has been notified of the plan’ s decision and a care plan has been 
agreed upon by the treating provider that is appropriate for the medical needs of that 
patient. 
(4)  Communications regarding decisions to appro ve requests by pro viders prior 
to, retrospectively, or concurrent with the provision of health care services to enrollees 
shall specify the specific health care service approved. Responses regarding decisions 
to den y, delay , or modify health care services requested by pro viders prior to, 
retrospectively, or concurrent with the pro vision of health care services to enrollees 
shall be communicated to the enrollee in writing, and to providers initially by telephone 
or facsimile, except with re gard to decisions rendered retrospecti vely, and then in 
writing, and shall include a clear and concise explanation of the reasons for the plan’s 
decision, a description of the criteria or guidelines used, and the clinical reasons for 
the decisions regarding medical necessity. Any written communication to a physician 
or other health care pro vider of a denial, delay , or modification of a request shall 
include the name and telephone number of the health care professional responsible 
for the denial, delay, or modification. The telephone number provided shall be a direct 
number or an extension, to allow the physician or health care provider easily to contact 
the professional responsible for the denial, delay , or modification. Responses shall 
also include information as to ho w the enrollee may file a grie vance with the plan 
pursuant to Section 1368, and in the case of Medi-Cal enrollees, shall e xplain how 
to request an administrative hearing and aid paid pending under Sections 51014.1 and 
51014.2 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations. 
(5)  If the health care service plan cannot mak e a decision to approve, modify, or 
deny the request for authorization within the timeframes specified in paragraph (1) 
or (2) because the plan is not in receipt of all of the information reasonably necessary 
and requested, or because the plan requires consultation by an e xpert reviewer, or 
because the plan has asked that an additional examination or test be performed upon 
the enrollee, provided the examination or test is reasonable and consistent with good 
medical practice, the plan shall, immediately upon the e xpiration of the timeframe 
specified in paragraph (1) or (2) or as soon as the plan becomes aware that it will not 
meet the timeframe, whichever occurs first, notify the pro vider and the enrollee, in 
writing, that the plan cannot make a decision to approve, modify, or deny the request 
for authorization within the required timeframe, and specify the information requested 
but not received, or the expert reviewer to be consulted, or the additional examinations 

or tests required. The plan shall also notify the provider and enrollee of the anticipated 
date on which a decision may be rendered. Upon receipt of all information reasonably 
necessary and requested by the plan, the plan shall appro ve, modify, or den y the 
request for authorization within the timeframes specified in paragraph (1) or (2), 
whichever applies. 
(6)  If the director determines that a health care service plan has failed to meet any 
of the timeframes in this section, or has failed to meet any other requirement of this 
section, the director may assess, by order , administrative penalties for each f ailure. 
A proceeding for the issuance of an order assessing administrative penalties shall be 
subject to appropriate notice to, and an opportunity for a hearing with re gard to, the 
person affected, in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section 1397. The administrative 
penalties shall not be deemed an e xclusive remedy for the director. These penalties 
shall be paid to the Managed Care Administrative Fines and Penalties Fund and shall 
be used for the purposes specified in Section 1341.45. 
(i)  A health care service plan subject to this section shall maintain telephone access 
for providers to request authorization for health care services. 
(j)  A health care service plan subject to this section that re views requests by 
providers prior to, retrospecti vely, or concurrent with, the pro vision of health care 
services to enrollees shall establish, as part of the quality assurance program required 
by Section 1370, a process by which the plan’s compliance with this section is assessed 
and evaluated. The process shall include pro visions for e valuation of complaints, 
assessment of trends, implementation of actions to correct identified problems, 
mechanisms to communicate actions and results to the appropriate health plan 
employees and contracting providers, and provisions for evaluation of any corrective 
action plan and measurements of performance. 
(k)  (1)  A health care service plan, including a specialized health care service plan 
that uses an artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool for the purpose 
of utilization review or utilization management functions, based in whole or in part 
on medical necessity, or that contracts with or otherwise works through an entity that 
uses an artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool for the purpose of 
utilization review or utilization management functions, based in whole or in part on 
medical necessity, shall comply with this section and shall ensure all of the following: 
(A)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool bases its 
determination on the following information, as applicable: 
(i)  An enrollee’s medical or other clinical history. 
(ii)  Individual clinical circumstances as presented by the requesting provider. 
(iii)  Other relevant clinical information contained in the enrollee’s medical or other 
clinical record. 
(B)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool does not base its 
determination solely on a group dataset. 
(C)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool’ s criteria and 
guidelines complies with this chapter , including, but not limited to, Section 1363.5 
and applicable state and federal law. 

(D)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool does not supplant 
health care provider decisionmaking. 
(E)  The use of the artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool does not 
discriminate, directly or indirectly , against enrollees in violation of state or federal 
law. 
(F)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool is f airly and 
equitably applied, including in accordance with an y applicable re gulations and 
guidance issued by the federal Department of Health and Human Services. 
(G)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool is open to inspection 
for audit or compliance reviews by the department pursuant to Section 1381 and by 
the State Department of Health Care Services pursuant to applicable state and federal 
law. 
(H)  Disclosures pertaining to the use and o versight of the artificial intelligence, 
algorithm, or other software tool are contained in the written policies and procedures, 
as required by subdivision (b). 
(I)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool’s performance, use, 
and outcomes are periodically re viewed and re vised to maximize accurac y and 
reliability. 
(J)  Patient data is not used beyond its intended and stated purpose, consistent with 
the Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (Part 2.6 (commencing with Section 
56) of Division 1 of the Civil Code) and the federal Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191), as applicable. 
(K)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool does not directly 
or indirectly cause harm to the enrollee. 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other 
software tool shall not deny, delay, or modify health care services based, in whole or 
in part, on medical necessity . A determination of medical necessity shall be made 
only by a licensed ph ysician or a licensed health care professional competent to 
evaluate the specific clinical issues involved in the health care services requested by 
the pro vider, as pro vided in subdi vision (e), by re viewing and considering the 
requesting provider’s recommendation, the enrollee’s medical or other clinical history, 
as applicable, and individual clinical circumstances. 
(3)  For purposes of this subdivision, “artificial intelligence” means an engineered 
or machine-based system that varies in its level of autonomy and that can, for explicit 
or implicit objectives, infer from the input it recei ves how to generate outputs that 
can influence physical or virtual environments. 
(4)  This subdivision shall apply to utilization re view or utilization management 
functions that prospecti vely, retrospecti vely, or concurrently re view requests for 
covered health care services. 
(5)  A health care service plan subject to this subdi vision shall comply with 
applicable federal rules and guidance issued by the federal Department of Health and 
Human Services regarding the use of artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software 
tools. The department and the State Department of Health Care Services may issue 
guidance to implement this paragraph within one year of the adoption of federal rules 

or the issuance of guidance by the federal Department of Health and Human Services 
regarding the use of artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tools. Such 
guidance shall not be subject to the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 
(commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government 
Code). 
(6)  For purposes of implementing this subdi vision, the department and the State 
Department of Health Care Services may enter into exclusive or nonexclusive contracts, 
or amend existing contracts, on a bid or ne gotiated basis. Contracts entered into or 
amended pursuant to this subdivision shall be exempt from Chapter 6 (commencing 
with Section 14825) of P art 5.5 of Di vision 3 of Title 2 of the Go vernment Code, 
Section 19130 of the Government Code, and Part 2 (commencing with Section 10100) 
of Division 2 of the Public Contract Code, and shall be e xempt from the re view or 
approval of any division of the Department of General Services. 
(7)  This subdivision applies to a Medi-Cal managed care plan only to the e xtent 
that the State Department of Health Care Services obtains an y necessary federal 
approvals, and federal financial participation is not otherwise jeopardized. 
(l)  The director shall re view a health care service plan’ s compliance with this 
section as part of its periodic onsite medical survey of each plan undertaken pursuant 
to Section 1380, and shall include a discussion of compliance with this section as part 
of its report issued pursuant to that section. 
(m)  This section shall not apply to decisions made for the care or treatment of the 
sick who depend upon prayer or spiritual means for healing in the practice of religion 
as set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 1270. 
(n)  Nothing in this section shall cause a health care service plan to be defined as 
a health care provider for purposes of any provision of law, including, but not limited 
to, Section 6146 of the Business and Professions Code, Sections 3333.1 and 3333.2 
of the Civil Code, and Sections 340.5, 364, 425.13, 667.7, and 1295 of the Code of 
Civil Procedure. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 879, Sec. 1.  (SB 1120)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 