State of California 
INSURANCE CODE 
Section  10123.135 
10123.135. (a)  Every disability insurer , or an entity with which it contracts for 
services that include utilization re view or utilization management functions, that 
covers hospital, medical, or surgical expenses and that prospectively, retrospectively, 
or concurrently reviews and approves, modifies, delays, or denies, based in whole or 
in part on medical necessity , requests by pro viders prior to, retrospecti vely, or 
concurrent with the pro vision of health care services to insureds, or that dele gates 
these functions to medical groups or independent practice associations or to other 
contracting providers, shall comply with this section. 
(b)  A disability insurer that is subject to this section, or an y entity with which an 
insurer contracts for services that include utilization review or utilization management 
functions, shall have written policies and procedures establishing the process by which 
the insurer prospecti vely, retrospecti vely, or concurrently re views and appro ves, 
modifies, delays, or denies, based in whole or in part on medical necessity, requests 
by providers of health care services for insureds. These policies and procedures shall 
ensure that decisions based on the medical necessity of proposed health care services 
are consistent with criteria or guidelines that are supported by clinical principles and 
processes. These criteria and guidelines shall be de veloped pursuant to subdi vision 
(f). These policies and procedures, and a description of the process by which an 
insurer, or an entity with which an insurer contracts for services that include utilization 
review or utilization management functions, reviews and approves, modifies, delays, 
or denies requests by pro viders prior to, retrospecti vely, or concurrent with the 
provision of health care services to insureds, shall be filed with the commissioner , 
and shall be disclosed by the insurer to insureds and pro viders upon request, and by 
the insurer to the public upon request. 
(c)  If the number of insureds covered under health benefit plans in this state that 
are issued by an insurer subject to this section constitute at least 50 percent of the 
number of insureds co vered under health benefit plans issued nationwide by that 
insurer, the insurer shall emplo y or designate a medical director who holds an 
unrestricted license to practice medicine in this state issued pursuant to Section 2050 
of the Business and Professions Code or the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the insurer 
may employ a clinical director licensed in California whose scope of practice under 
California law includes the right to independently perform all those services covered 
by the insurer. The medical director or clinical director shall ensure that the process 
by which the insurer reviews and approves, modifies, delays, or denies, based in whole 
or in part on medical necessity , requests by pro viders prior to, retrospecti vely, or 
concurrent with the provision of health care services to insureds, complies with the 

requirements of this section. Nothing in this subdi vision shall be construed as 
restricting the existing authority of the Medical Board of California. 
(d)  If an insurer subject to this section, or individuals under contract to the insurer 
to review requests by providers, approve the provider’s request pursuant to subdivision 
(b), the decision shall be communicated to the provider pursuant to subdivision (h). 
(e)  An indi vidual, other than a licensed ph ysician or a licensed health care 
professional who is competent to evaluate the specific clinical issues involved in the 
health care services requested by the provider, may not deny or modify requests for 
authorization of health care services for an insured for reasons of medical necessity. 
The decision of the physician or other health care provider shall be communicated to 
the provider and the insured pursuant to subdivision (h). 
(f)  (1)  An insurer shall disclose, or provide for the disclosure, to the commissioner 
and to network providers, the process the insurer, its contracting provider groups, or 
any entity with which it contracts for services that include utilization re view or 
utilization management functions, uses to authorize, delay , modify, or den y health 
care services under the benefits provided by the insurance contract, including coverage 
for subacute care, transitional inpatient care, or care pro vided in skilled nursing 
facilities. An insurer shall also disclose those processes to polic yholders or persons 
designated by a policyholder, or to any other person or organization, upon request. 
(2)  The criteria or guidelines used by an insurer, or an entity with which an insurer 
contracts for utilization re view or utilization management functions, to determine 
whether to authorize, modify, delay, or deny health care services, shall comply with 
all of the following: 
(A)  Be developed with involvement from actively practicing health care providers. 
(B)  Be consistent with sound clinical principles and processes. 
(C)  Be evaluated, and updated if necessary, at least annually. 
(D)  If used as the basis of a decision to modify, delay, or deny services in a specified 
case under review, be disclosed to the provider and the policyholder in that specified 
case. 
(E)  Be available to the public upon request. An insurer shall only be required to 
disclose the criteria or guidelines for the specific procedures or conditions requested. 
An insurer may char ge reasonable fees to co ver administrative expenses related to 
disclosing criteria or guidelines pursuant to this paragraph that are limited to copying 
and postage costs. The insurer may also mak e the criteria or guidelines a vailable 
through electronic communication means. 
(3)  The disclosure required by subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) shall be 
accompanied by the following notice: “The materials provided to you are guidelines 
used by this insurer to authorize, modify , or den y health care benefits for persons 
with similar illnesses or conditions. Specific care and treatment may vary depending 
on individual need and the benefits covered under your insurance contract.” 
(g)  If an insurer subject to this section requests medical information from providers 
in order to determine whether to approve, modify, or deny requests for authorization, 
the insurer shall request only the information reasonably necessary to mak e the 
determination. 

(h)  In determining whether to approve, modify, or deny requests by providers prior 
to, retrospectively, or concurrent with the provision of health care services to insureds, 
based in whole or in part on medical necessity , every insurer subject to this section 
shall meet the following requirements: 
(1)  Decisions to approve, modify, or deny, based on medical necessity , requests 
by providers prior to, or concurrent with, the pro vision of health care services to 
insureds that do not meet the requirements for the time period for review required by 
paragraph (2), shall be made in a timely f ashion appropriate for the nature of the 
insured’s condition, not to exceed five business days from the insurer’s receipt of the 
information reasonably necessary and requested by the insurer to mak e the 
determination. In cases where the re view is retrospecti ve, the decision shall be 
communicated to the individual who received services, or to the individual’s designee, 
within 30 days of the receipt of information that is reasonably necessary to make this 
determination, and shall be communicated to the provider in a manner that is consistent 
with current law. For purposes of this section, retrospective reviews shall be for care 
rendered on or after January 1, 2000. 
(2)  When the insured’s condition is such that the insured f aces an imminent and 
serious threat to the insured’s health, including, but not limited to, the potential loss 
of life, limb, or other major bodily function, or the normal timeframe for the 
decisionmaking process, as described in paragraph (1), w ould be detrimental to the 
insured’s life or health or could jeopardize the insured’ s ability to regain maximum 
function, decisions to appro ve, modify, or den y requests by pro viders prior to, or 
concurrent with, the provision of health care services to insureds shall be made in a 
timely fashion, appropriate for the nature of the insured’s condition, but not to exceed 
72 hours or, if shorter, the period of time required under Section 2719 of the federal 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 300gg-19) and an y subsequent rules or 
regulations issued thereunder, after the insurer’s receipt of the information reasonably 
necessary and requested by the insurer to make the determination. 
(3)  Decisions to approve, modify, or deny requests by providers for authorization 
prior to, or concurrent with, the provision of health care services to insureds shall be 
communicated to the requesting provider within 24 hours of the decision. Except for 
concurrent re view decisions pertaining to care that is underw ay, which shall be 
communicated to the insured’s treating provider within 24 hours, decisions resulting 
in denial, delay, or modification of all or part of the requested health care service shall 
be communicated to the insured in writing within two business days of the decision. 
In the case of concurrent re view, care shall not be discontinued until the insured’ s 
treating provider has been notified of the insurer’s decision and a care plan has been 
agreed upon by the treating provider that is appropriate for the medical needs of that 
patient. 
(4)  Communications regarding decisions to appro ve requests by pro viders prior 
to, retrospectively, or concurrent with the provision of health care services to insureds 
shall specify the specific health care service approved. Responses regarding decisions 
to den y, delay , or modify health care services requested by pro viders prior to, 
retrospectively, or concurrent with the pro vision of health care services to insureds 

shall be communicated to insureds in writing, and to providers initially by telephone 
or facsimile, except with re gard to decisions rendered retrospecti vely, and then in 
writing, and shall include a clear and concise e xplanation of the reasons for the 
insurer’s decision, a description of the criteria or guidelines used, and the clinical 
reasons for the decisions re garding medical necessity. Any written communication 
to a physician or other health care pro vider of a denial, delay , or modification or a 
request shall include the name and telephone number of the health care professional 
responsible for the denial, delay , or modification. The telephone number pro vided 
shall be a direct number or an extension, to allow the physician or health care provider 
easily to contact the professional responsible for the denial, delay , or modification. 
Responses shall also include information as to ho w the provider or the insured may 
file an appeal with the insurer or seek department re view under the unfair practices 
provisions of Article 6.5 (commencing with Section 790) of Chapter 1 of P art 2 of 
Division 1 and the regulations adopted thereunder. 
(5)  If the insurer cannot make a decision to approve, modify, or deny the request 
for authorization within the timeframes specified in paragraph (1) or (2) because the 
insurer is not in receipt of all of the information reasonably necessary and requested, 
or because the insurer requires consultation by an e xpert reviewer, or because the 
insurer has asked that an additional examination or test be performed upon the insured, 
provided that the examination or test is reasonable and consistent with good medical 
practice, the insurer shall, immediately upon the expiration of the timeframe specified 
in paragraph (1) or (2), or as soon as the insurer becomes aware that it will not meet 
the timeframe, whichever occurs first, notify the provider and the insured, in writing, 
that the insurer cannot mak e a decision to appro ve, modify, or deny the request for 
authorization within the required timeframe, and specify the information requested 
but not received, or the expert reviewer to be consulted, or the additional examinations 
or tests required. The insurer shall also notify the pro vider and enrollee of the 
anticipated date on which a decision may be rendered. Upon receipt of all information 
reasonably necessary and requested by the insurer, the insurer shall approve, modify, 
or deny the request for authorization within the timeframes specified in paragraph (1) 
or (2), whichever applies. 
(6)  If the commissioner determines that an insurer has f ailed to meet an y of the 
timeframes in this section, or has failed to meet any other requirement of this section, 
the commissioner may assess, by order , administrative penalties for each f ailure. A 
proceeding for the issuance of an order assessing administrati ve penalties shall be 
subject to appropriate notice to, and an opportunity for a hearing with re gard to, the 
person affected. The administrative penalties shall not be deemed an exclusive remedy 
for the commissioner. These penalties shall be paid to the Insurance Fund. 
(i)  Every insurer subject to this section shall maintain telephone access for providers 
to request authorization for health care services. 
(j)  (1)  A disability insurer , including a specialized health insurer that uses an 
artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool for the purpose of utilization 
review or utilization management functions, based in whole or in part on medical 
necessity, or that contracts with or otherwise w orks through an entity that uses an 

artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool for the purpose of utilization 
review or utilization management functions, based in whole or in part on medical 
necessity, shall comply with this section and shall ensure all of the following: 
(A)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool bases its 
determination on the following information, as applicable: 
(i)  An insured’s medical or other clinical history. 
(ii)  Individual clinical circumstances as presented by the requesting provider. 
(iii)  Other relevant clinical information contained in the insured’s medical or other 
clinical record. 
(B)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool does not base its 
determination solely on a group dataset. 
(C)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool’ s criteria and 
guidelines complies with this chapter and applicable state and federal law. 
(D)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool does not supplant 
health care provider decisionmaking. 
(E)  The use of the artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool does not 
discriminate, directly or indirectly , against insureds in violation of state or federal 
law. 
(F)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other softw are tool is f airly and 
equitably applied, including in accordance with an y applicable re gulations and 
guidance issued by the federal Department of Health and Human Services. 
(G)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool is open to inspection 
for audit or compliance re views by the department pursuant to applicable state and 
federal law. 
(H)  Disclosures pertaining to the use and o versight of the artificial intelligence, 
algorithm, or other software tool are contained in the written policies and procedures, 
as required by subdivision (b). 
(I)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool’s performance, use, 
and outcomes are periodically re viewed and re vised to maximize accurac y and 
reliability. 
(J)  Patient data is not used beyond its intended and stated purpose, consistent with 
the Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (Part 2.6 (commencing with Section 
56) of Division 1 of the Civil Code) and the federal Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191), as applicable. 
(K)  The artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tool does not directly 
or indirectly cause harm to the insured. 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other 
software tool shall not deny, delay, or modify health care services based, in whole or 
in part, on medical necessity . A determination of medical necessity shall be made 
only by a licensed physician or licensed health care professional competent to evaluate 
the specific clinical issues in volved in the health care services requested by the 
provider, as provided in subdivision (e), by reviewing and considering the requesting 
provider’s recommendation, the insured’ s medical or other clinical history , as 
applicable, and individual clinical circumstances. 

(3)  For purposes of this subdivision, “artificial intelligence” means an engineered 
or machine-based system that varies in its level of autonomy and that can, for explicit 
or implicit objectives, infer from the input it recei ves how to generate outputs that 
can influence physical or virtual environments. 
(4)  This subdivision shall apply to utilization re view or utilization management 
functions that prospecti vely, retrospecti vely, or concurrently re view requests for 
covered health care services. 
(5)  A disability insurer subject to this subdi vision shall comply with applicable 
federal rules and guidance issued by the federal Department of Health and Human 
Services regarding the use of artificial intelligence, algorithm, or other software tools. 
The department may issue guidance to implement this paragraph within one year of 
the adoption of federal rules or the issuance of guidance by the federal Department 
of Health and Human Services regarding the use of artificial intelligence, algorithm, 
or other softw are tools. Such guidance shall not be subject to the Administrative 
Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 
3 of Title 2 of the Government Code). 
(6)  For purposes of implementing this subdivision, the department may enter into 
exclusive or nonexclusive contracts, or amend existing contracts, on a bid or negotiated 
basis. Contracts entered into or amended pursuant to this subdivision shall be exempt 
from Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 14825) of P art 5.5 of Division 3 of Title 
2 of the Go vernment Code, Section 19130 of the Go vernment Code, and P art 2 
(commencing with Section 10100) of Di vision 2 of the Public Contract Code, and 
shall be e xempt from the re view or appro val of an y division of the Department of 
General Services. 
(k)  Nothing in this section shall cause a disability insurer to be defined as a health 
care provider for purposes of an y provision of la w, including, b ut not limited to, 
Section 6146 of the Business and Professions Code, Sections 3333.1 and 3333.2 of 
the Civil Code, and Sections 340.5, 364, 425.13, 667.7, and 1295 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 879, Sec. 2.  (SB 1120)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 