State of California 
PENAL CODE 
Section  311.11 
311.11. (a)  (1)  Every person who kno wingly possesses or controls an y matter , 
representation of information, data, or image, including, but not limited to, any film, 
filmstrip, photograph, negative, slide, photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer 
hardware, computer software, computer floppy disc, data storage media, CD-ROM, 
or computer-generated equipment or any other computer-generated image that contains 
or incorporates in an y manner , an y film, filmstrip, or an y digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated matter, the production of which in volves the use of 
a person under 18 years of age, kno wing that the matter depicts a person under 18 
years of age personally eng aging in or simulating se xual conduct, as defined in 
subdivision (d) of Section 311.4, is guilty of a felon y and shall be punished by 
imprisonment in the state prison, or a county jail for up to one year , or by a fine not 
exceeding tw o thousand fiv e hundred dollars ($2,500), or by both the fine and 
imprisonment. 
(2)  Every person who knowingly possesses or controls any matter, representation 
of information, data, or image, including, b ut not limited to, an y film, filmstrip, 
photograph, negative, slide, photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer hardware, 
computer softw are, computer flopp y disc, data storage media, CD-R OM, or 
computer-generated equipment or any other computer-generated image that contains 
or incorporates in an y manner , an y film, filmstrip, or an y digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated matter, knowing that the matter is obscene and depicts 
what appears to be a person under 18 years of age, or contains digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated data depicting what appears to be a person under 18 
years of age, engaging in or simulating sexual conduct, as defined in subdivision (d) 
of Section 311.4, is guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment in the 
state prison, or imprisonment in a county jail for up to one year , or by a fine not 
exceeding tw o thousand fiv e hundred dollars ($2,500), or by both that fine and 
imprisonment. 
(b)  Every person who commits a violation of subdi vision (a), and who has been 
previously convicted of a violation of this section, an of fense requiring registration 
under the Se x Of fender Re gistration Act, or an attempt to commit an y of the 
above-mentioned offenses, is guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment 
in the state prison for two, four, or six years. 
(c)  Each person who commits a violation of subdivision (a) shall be punished by 
imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or tw o or fiv e years, or shall be 
punished by imprisonment in a county jail for up to one year, or by a fine not exceeding 

two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500), or by both the fine and imprisonment, if 
one of the following factors exists: 
(1)  The matter contains more than 600 images that violate subdivision (a), and the 
matter contains 10 or more images in volving a prepubescent minor or a minor who 
has not attained 12 years of age. 
(2)  The matter portrays se xual sadism or se xual masochism in volving a person 
under 18 years of age. F or purposes of this section, “se xual sadism” means the 
intentional infliction of pain for purposes of se xual gratification or stimulation. F or 
purposes of this section, “sexual masochism” means intentionally experiencing pain 
for purposes of sexual gratification or stimulation. 
(d)  It is not necessary to pro ve that the matter is obscene in order to establish a 
violation of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a). 
(1)  Paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) does not apply to drawings, figurines, or statues. 
(2)  This section does not apply to any film rated by the Motion Picture Association 
of America, nor does it apply to live or recorded telephone messages when transmitted, 
disseminated, or distributed as part of a commercial transaction. 
(e)  For purposes of determining the number of images under paragraph (1) of 
subdivision (c), the following shall apply: 
(1)  Each photograph, picture, computer or computer -generated image, or an y 
similar visual depiction shall be considered to be one image. 
(2)  Each video, video-clip, movie, or similar visual depiction shall be considered 
to have 50 images. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 926, Sec. 4.  (AB 1831)  Ef fective January 1, 2025.  Note: This section 
was amended on Nov. 7, 2006, by initiative Prop. 83. ) 