State of California 
PENAL CODE 
Section  312.3 
312.3. (a)  Matter that depicts a person under 18 years of age engaging in or simulating 
sexual conduct as defined in Section 311.4 and that is in the possession of an y city, 
county, city and county, or state official or agency is subject to forfeiture pursuant to 
this section. 
(b)  An action to forfeit matter described in subdivision (a) may be brought by the 
Attorney General, the district attorney, county counsel, or the city attorney. Proceedings 
shall be initiated by a petition of forfeiture filed in the superior court of the county in 
which the matter is located. 
(c)  The prosecuting agenc y shall mak e service of process of a notice re garding 
that petition upon every individual who may ha ve a property interest in the alle ged 
proceeds. The notice shall state that an y interested party may file a v erified claim 
with the superior court stating the amount of their claimed interest and an affirmation 
or denial of the prosecuting agenc y’s allegation. If the notice cannot be gi ven by 
registered mail or personal deli very, the notice shall be published for at least three 
successive weeks in a ne wspaper of general circulation in the county where the 
property is located. All notices shall set forth the time within which a claim of interest 
in the property seized is required to be filed. 
(d)  (1)  Any person claiming an interest in the property or proceeds may , at any 
time within 30 days from the date of the first publication of the notice of seizure, or 
within 30 days after receipt of actual notice, file with the superior court of the county 
in which the action is pending a verified claim stating their interest in the property or 
proceeds. A verified copy of the claim shall be given by the claimant to the Attorney 
General or district attorney, county counsel, or city attorney, as appropriate. 
(2)  If, at the end of the time set forth in paragraph (1), an interested person has not 
filed a claim, the court, upon motion, shall declare that the person has defaulted upon 
their alleged interest, and it shall be subject to forfeiture upon proof of compliance 
with subdivision (c). 
(e)  The burden is on the petitioner to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that matter 
is subject to forfeiture pursuant to this section. 
(f)  It is not necessary to seek or obtain a criminal conviction prior to the entry of 
an order for the destruction of matter or obscene matter pursuant to this section. Any 
matter described in subdivision (a) that is in the possession of an y city, county, city 
and county, or state official or agency, including found property, or property obtained 
as the result of a case in which no trial was had or that has been disposed of by way 
of dismissal or otherwise than by way of conviction may be ordered destroyed. 

(g)  A court order for destruction of matter or obscene matter described in 
subdivision (a) may be carried out by a police or sherif f’s department or by the 
Department of Justice. The court order shall specify the agenc y responsible for the 
destruction. 
(h)  As used in this section, “matter” means an y book, mag azine, newspaper, or 
other printed or written material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, 
or other pictorial representation, or an y statue or other figure, or an y recording, 
transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other articles, 
equipment, machines, or materials. “Matter” also means an y representation of 
information, data, or image, including, b ut not limited to, an y film, filmstrip, 
photograph, negative, slide, photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer hardware, 
computer softw are, computer flopp y disc, data storage media, CD-R OM, or 
computer-generated equipment or any other computer-generated image that contains 
or incorporates in an y manner an y film, filmstrip, or digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated matter. 
(i)  This section does not apply to a depiction of a legally emancipated minor or to 
lawful conduct between spouses if one or both are under 18 years of age. 
(j)  It is a defense in an y forfeiture proceeding that the matter or obscene matter 
seized was lawfully possessed in aid of legitimate scientific or educational purposes. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 929, Sec. 4.  (SB 1381)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 