State of California 
PENAL CODE 
Section  311.3 
311.3. (a)  A person is guilty of sexual exploitation of a child if that person knowingly 
develops, duplicates, prints, or exchanges any representation of information, data, or 
image, including, but not limited to, any film, filmstrip, photograph, negative, slide, 
photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer hardw are, computer softw are, 
computer floppy disc, data storage media, CD-ROM, or computer-generated equipment 
or any other computer-generated image that contains or incorporates in any manner, 
any film, filmstrip, or any digitally altered or artificial-intelligence-generated matter 
that depicts a person under 18 years of age engaged in an act of sexual conduct. 
(b)  It is not necessary to pro ve that the matter is obscene in order to establish a 
violation of subdivision (a). 
(c)  As used in this section, “sexual conduct” means any of the following: 
(1)  Sexual intercourse, including genital-genital, oral-genital, anal-genital, or 
oral-anal, whether between persons of the same or opposite se x or between humans 
and animals. 
(2)  Penetration of the vagina or rectum by any object. 
(3)  Masturbation for the purpose of sexual stimulation of the viewer. 
(4)  Sadomasochistic abuse for the purpose of sexual stimulation of the viewer. 
(5)  Exhibition of the genitals or the pubic or rectal area of an y person for the 
purpose of sexual stimulation of the viewer. 
(6)  Defecation or urination for the purpose of sexual stimulation of the viewer. 
(d)  Subdivision (a) does not apply to the acti vities of la w enforcement and 
prosecution agencies in the investigation and prosecution of criminal of fenses or to 
legitimate medical, scientific, or educational activities, or to lawful conduct between 
spouses. 
(e)  Every person who violates subdi vision (a) shall be punished by a fine of not 
more than two thousand dollars ($2,000) or by imprisonment in a county jail for not 
more than one year , or by both that fine and imprisonment. If the person has been 
previously convicted of a violation of subdi vision (a) or any section of this chapter, 
the person shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison. 
(f)  The provisions of this section do not apply to an emplo yee of a commercial 
film developer who is acting within the scope of employment and in accordance with 
the instructions of their employer, provided that the employee has no financial interest 
in the commercial developer by which they are employed. 

(g)  Subdivision (a) does not apply to matter that is unsolicited and is recei ved 
without knowledge or consent through a facility, system, or network over which the 
person or entity has no control. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 929, Sec. 2.  (SB 1381)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 