State of California 
PENAL CODE 
Section  311 
311. As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply: 
(a)  “Obscene matter” means matter, taken as a whole, that to the average person, 
applying contemporary statewide standards, appeals to the prurient interest, that, taken 
as a whole, depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently offensive way, and that, 
taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. 
(1)  If it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its 
dissemination, distribution, or exhibition that it is designed for clearly defined deviant 
sexual groups, the appeal of the matter shall be judged with reference to its intended 
recipient group. 
(2)  In prosecutions under this chapter , if the circumstances of production, 
presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that matter is being 
commercially e xploited by the defendant for the sak e of its prurient appeal, this 
evidence is probati ve with respect to the nature of the matter and may justify the 
conclusion that the matter lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. 
(3)  In determining whether the matter tak en as a whole lacks serious literary , 
artistic, political, or scientific value in description or representation of those matters, 
the fact that the defendant knew that the matter depicts persons under 16 years of age 
engaged in sexual conduct, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 311.4, is a factor 
that may be considered in making that determination. 
(b)  “Artificial intelligence” means an engineered or machine-based system that 
varies in its level of autonomy and that can, for e xplicit or implicit objectives, infer 
from the input it receives how to generate outputs that can influence physical or virtual 
environments. 
(c)  “Matter” means an y book, mag azine, newspaper, or other printed or written 
material, or an y picture, dra wing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial 
representation, or an y statue or other figure, or an y recording, transcription, or 
mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or an y other article, equipment, 
machine, or material. “Matter” also means li ve or recorded telephone messages if 
transmitted, disseminated, or distributed as part of a commercial transaction. 
(d)  “Person” means an y individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, 
limited liability company, or other legal entity. 
(e)  “Distribute” means transfer possession of, whether with or without 
consideration. 
(f)  “Knowingly” means being aware of the character of the matter or live conduct. 
(g)  “Exhibit” means show. 

(h)  “Obscene live conduct” means an y ph ysical human body acti vity, whether 
performed or engaged in alone or with other persons, including, b ut not limited to, 
singing, speaking, dancing, acting, simulating, or pantomiming, tak en as a whole, 
that to the average person, applying contemporary statewide standards, appeals to the 
prurient interest and is conduct that, tak en as a whole, depicts or describes se xual 
conduct in a patently offensive way and that, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, 
artistic, political, or scientific value. 
(1)  If it appears from the nature of the conduct or the circumstances of its 
production, presentation, or exhibition that it is designed for clearly defined deviant 
sexual groups, the appeal of the conduct shall be judged with reference to its intended 
recipient group. 
(2)  In prosecutions under this chapter, if circumstances of production, presentation, 
advertising, or exhibition indicate that live conduct is being commercially exploited 
by the defendant for the sak e of its prurient appeal, that e vidence is probative with 
respect to the nature of the conduct and may justify the conclusion that the conduct 
lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. 
(3)  In determining whether the live conduct taken as a whole lacks serious literary, 
artistic, political, or scientific value in description or representation of those matters, 
the fact that the defendant knew that the live conduct depicts persons under 16 years 
of age engaged in sexual conduct, as defined in subdi vision (c) of Section 311.4, is 
a factor that may be considered in making that determination. 
(i)  The Legislature expresses its approval of the holding of People v . Cantrell, 7 
Cal. App. 4th 523, that, for the purposes of this chapter, matter that “depicts a person 
under 18 years of age personally engaging in or personally simulating sexual conduct” 
is limited to visual works that depict that conduct. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 926, Sec. 2.  (AB 1831)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 