State of California 
PENAL CODE 
Section  311.4 
311.4. (a)  Every person who, with knowledge that a person is a minor, or who, while 
in possession of any facts on the basis of which they should reasonably know that the 
person is a minor, hires, employs, or uses the minor to do or assist in doing an y of 
the acts described in Section 311.2, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county 
jail for up to one year , or by a fine not e xceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000), or 
by both that fine and imprisonment, or by imprisonment in the state prison. If the 
person has previously been convicted of any violation of this section, the court may, 
in addition to the punishment authorized in Section 311.9, impose a fine not exceeding 
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). 
(b)  Every person who, with knowledge that a person is a minor under 18 years of 
age, or who, while in possession of an y f acts on the basis of which the y should 
reasonably know that the person is a minor under 18 years of age, knowingly promotes, 
employs, uses, persuades, induces, or coerces a minor under 18 years of age, or an y 
parent or guardian of a minor under 18 years of age who is under their control who 
knowingly permits the minor, to engage in or assist others to engage in either posing 
or modeling alone or with others for purposes of preparing an y representation of 
information, data, or image, including, b ut not limited to, an y film, filmstrip, 
photograph, negative, slide, photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer hardware, 
computer softw are, computer flopp y disc, data storage media, CD-R OM, or 
computer-generated equipment or any other computer-generated image that contains 
or incorporates in an y manner , an y film, filmstrip, digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated matter, or live performance, involving sexual conduct 
by a minor under 18 years of age alone or with other persons or animals, for 
commercial purposes, is guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment in 
the state prison for three, six, or eight years. 
(c)  Every person who, with knowledge that a person is a minor under 18 years of 
age, or who, while in possession of an y f acts on the basis of which the y should 
reasonably know that the person is a minor under 18 years of age, knowingly promotes, 
employs, uses, persuades, induces, or coerces a minor under 18 years of age, or an y 
parent or guardian of a minor under 18 years of age who is under their control who 
knowingly permits the minor, to engage in or assist others to engage in either posing 
or modeling alone or with others for purposes of preparing an y representation of 
information, data, or image, including, b ut not limited to, an y film, filmstrip, 
photograph, negative, slide, photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer hardware, 
computer softw are, computer flopp y disc, data storage media, CD-R OM, or 
computer-generated equipment or any other computer-generated image that contains 

or incorporates in an y manner , an y film, filmstrip, digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated matter, or live performance, involving sexual conduct 
by a minor under 18 years of age alone or with other persons or animals, is guilty of 
a felony. It is not necessary to pro ve commercial purposes in order to establish a 
violation of this subdivision. 
(d)  As used in subdi visions (b) and (c), “se xual conduct” means an y of the 
following, whether actual or simulated: se xual intercourse, oral copulation, anal 
intercourse, anal oral copulation, masturbation, bestiality , se xual sadism, se xual 
masochism, penetration of the vagina or rectum by any object in a lewd or lascivious 
manner, exhibition of the genitals or pubic or rectal area for the purpose of se xual 
stimulation of the viewer, any lewd or lascivious sexual act as defined in Section 288, 
or excretory functions performed in a lewd or lascivious manner, whether or not any 
of the above conduct is performed alone or between members of the same or opposite 
sex or between humans and animals. An act is simulated when it gives the appearance 
of being sexual conduct. 
(e)  This section does not apply to a legally emancipated minor or to lawful conduct 
between spouses if one or both are under 18 years of age. 
(f)  In every prosecution under this section in volving a minor under 14 years of 
age at the time of the offense, the age of the victim shall be pled and pro ven for the 
purpose of the enhanced penalty provided in Section 647.6. Failure to plead and prove 
that the victim w as under 14 years of age at the time of the of fense is not a bar to 
prosecution under this section if it is proven that the victim was under 18 years of age 
at the time of the offense. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 929, Sec. 3.  (SB 1381)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 