State of California 
PENAL CODE 
Section  311.1 
311.1. (a)  Every person who kno wingly sends or causes to be sent, or brings or 
causes to be brought, into this state for sale or distribution, or in this state possesses, 
prepares, publishes, produces, de velops, duplicates, or prints an y representation of 
information, data, or image, including, b ut not limited to, an y film, filmstrip, 
photograph, negative, slide, photocopy, videotape, video laser disc, computer hardware, 
computer softw are, computer flopp y disc, data storage media, CD-R OM, or 
computer-generated equipment or any other computer-generated image that contains 
or incorporates in an y manner , an y film, filmstrip, or an y digitally altered or 
artificial-intelligence-generated matter, with intent to distribute or to exhibit to, or to 
exchange with, others, or who of fers to distrib ute, distrib utes, or e xhibits to, or 
exchanges with, others, any obscene matter, knowing that the matter depicts a person 
under 18 years of age, or contains digitally altered or artificial-intelligence-generated 
data depicting what appears to be a person under 18 years of age, eng aging in or 
simulating sexual conduct, as defined in Section 311.4, shall be punished either by 
imprisonment in the county jail for up to one year, by a fine not to exceed one thousand 
dollars ($1,000), or by both the fine and imprisonment, or by imprisonment in the 
state prison, by a fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by the fine and 
imprisonment. 
(b)  This section does not apply to the activities of law enforcement and prosecuting 
agencies in the in vestigation and prosecution of criminal of fenses or to le gitimate 
medical, scientific, or educational activities, or to lawful conduct between spouses. 
(c)  This section does not apply to matter that depicts a child under 18 years of age 
when the child is le gally emancipated, including la wful conduct between spouses 
when one or both are under 18 years of age. 
(d)  It does not constitute a violation of this section for a telephone corporation, as 
defined by Section 234 of the Public Utilities Code, to carry or transmit messages 
described in this chapter or perform related activities in providing telephone services. 
(Amended by Stats. 2024, Ch. 929, Sec. 1.  (SB 1381)  Effective January 1, 2025.) 