State of California 
PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE 
Section  42051.1 
42051.1. (a)  As a condition of producer responsibility plan approval, the PRO plan 
shall comply with the re gulations adopted by the department pursuant to Section 
42060. The PRO shall submit a plan and budget that includes the provisions necessary 
for the department to ensure producers co vered under the plan comply with this 
chapter. 
(b)  The plan shall include all of the following: 
(1)  Actions and in vestments that the PR O will implement in order to meet the 
requirements of this chapter and address the needs and investments identified in the 
needs assessment. 
(2)  The source reduction plan required pursuant to Section 42057. For any covered 
material that is not reasonably anticipated by the PRO to achieve the requirements of 
this chapter, the PRO shall include in the plan a timeline and actions to discontinue 
use of the covered material category. 
(3)  Technologies and means that will be utilized to achieve recycling requirements, 
including demonstration that the means and technologies meet the conditions specified 
in subdivision (aa) of Section 42041. 
(c)  The plan shall include objecti ve and measurable criteria whene ver possible, 
and describe all of the following: 
(1)  How the PRO will meet the requirements of this chapter , including, b ut not 
limited to, how it will, in an economically efficient and practical manner, provide for 
the necessary infrastructure and viable responsible end markets to ensure the covered 
material will achie ve the requirements of Section 42050 based on the needs 
assessments. 
(2)  How the PR O will support and achie ve, and ho w the b udget will fund, the 
collection, processing, rec ycling, or composting of, and the de velopment of viable 
responsible end markets for, covered materials to meet the requirements of this chapter. 
This includes, but is not limited to, actions necessary to sort, segregate, break or flake, 
and process material to specifications for sale to a responsible end market. For purposes 
of this paragraph, “specifications” means the third-party purchasing specifications 
issued by a buyer or buyers of recycled materials for reprocessing into a new product. 
(3)  (A)  How the plan is supplemental to, and not in conflict with, disrupti ve of, 
or adversely affecting, the performance of the solid waste network providing services 
in accordance with local solid waste handling requirements and the intent described 
in Section 40004, and ho w the PR O will le verage and utilize e xisting collection 
programs and recycling, composting, sorting, and processing infrastructure. 

(B)  Except as specified in subdi visions (b), (c), (d), and (e) of Section 42060.5, 
how the plan will be implemented in a manner utilizing solid waste collection programs 
and solid waste facilities as the designated system for the collection and processing 
of covered material. 
(4)  In accordance with Section 40059, how the plan and the activities undertaken 
pursuant to the plan will be implemented in compliance with state and local la ws, 
rules, and regulations applicable to solid w aste handling and in a manner that does 
not violate existing franchise agreements. 
(5)  How covered material will be collected, processed, and managed, and recycled, 
remanufactured, or composted, consistent with the goals, standards, and practices 
required by this chapter, including ensuring covered material collected for recycling 
will be transferred to viable responsible end markets for processing into new packaging 
or products, including, but not limited to, how the plan will enhance or expand viable 
responsible end markets in California including manufacturing. 
(6)  Arrangements with processors or rec yclers to ensure that co vered materials 
that are not collected through a curbside collection program or other local collection 
program are collected and recycled at a viable responsible end market, including any 
investment that will be made to cover the cost of the covered material being processed 
or recycled by processors or recyclers. 
(7)  Arrangements to establish and fund reuse or refill infrastructure, fund facility 
retrofits, or other needed infrastructure to eliminate plastic co vered material, shift 
covered material from plastic to a nonplastic covered material category, or any other 
actions taken, or that will be taken, to implement the source reduction requirements 
pursuant to Section 42057. 
(8)  How postconsumer recycled content will be incorporated into covered material, 
including the amounts of postconsumer recycled content. 
(9)  How the plan will be implemented in a manner consistent with the w aste 
hierarchy established in Section 40051. 
(d)  (1)  The plan shall include a fee for participants of the PRO consistent with the 
provisions of Section 42053, set forth the calculation of the fee, and describe the 
process through which the PRO will collect the fee from producers that are participants 
of the PRO’s approved plan. 
(2)  The plan shall include a description of the fee structure and a schedule of the 
fees actually charged to producers who are participants of a PRO’s approved plan. 
(e)  The plan shall include ef forts to use education and promotion to encourage 
proper participation in rec ycling and composting collection and reuse and refill 
systems. The PR O shall ensure coordination between these ef forts and e xisting 
educational and promotional efforts. These may include, but are not limited to, all of 
the following: 
(1)  Education and eng agement to reduce the rate of inbound contamination or 
unwanted materials. 
(2)  Outreach to obtain consistently high le vels of public participation in and use 
of collection services and reuse and refill systems. 

(3)  Education and eng agement with residents on proper rec ycling, composting, 
and reuse and refill behaviors. 
(4)  Support for increased statewide and local outreach needed to achieve the plan’s 
goals. 
(f)  The plan shall include a closure or transfer plan to settle the affairs of the PRO 
that ensures that producers who are participants of the PR O’s approved plan will 
continue to meet their oblig ations in the e vent of dissolution of the or ganization or 
revocation of a plan by the department and that describes a process for notifying the 
department, the advisory board, local jurisdictions, and an y contractors of the 
dissolution. The closure or transfer plan shall provide for sufficient reserve funds in 
the trust fund or escrow account established pursuant to Section 42056 to allo w the 
PRO to satisfy all oblig ations in the e vent of dissolution of the PR O until the 
participants of the PR O’s approved plan ha ve become a participant of a dif ferent 
PRO’s approved plan. 
(g)  (1)  The plan shall include a process for determining the costs that will be 
incurred by local jurisdictions, rec ycling service pro viders, alternati ve collection 
systems, and others under this chapter and shall include a mechanism and schedule 
for transferring the portion of the fee required by paragraph (7) of subdivision (c) of 
Section 42053 to local jurisdictions. The PRO shall determine the costs based on 
information provided by local jurisdictions, rec ycling service providers, and others 
under this chapter. Payment of these costs shall be reflected in the b udget pursuant 
to subdivision (j). 
(2)  The plan shall include a process to resolve disputes for determining and paying 
the reasonable costs pursuant to paragraph (1) that arise between the PRO and a local 
jurisdiction or a rec ycling service pro vider. This process shall be re viewed by the 
advisory board to ensure the PRO covers costs related to this chapter and shall become 
effective upon plan approval by the department. 
(h)  The plan shall include the source reduction data specified in subdivision (c) of 
Section 42057. 
(i)  (1)  The plan shall include consideration of the needs assessment and an y 
recommended investments to meet the needs identified in the needs assessments and 
inform the budget. 
(2)  The budget shall not propose in vesting in acti vities in violation of Section 
40004 or an agreement entered into pursuant to Section 40059 and shall include a 
mechanism to disburse funds for identified activities. 
(3)  The b udget may include, b ut shall not be limited to, elements that will 
accomplish all of the following: 
(A)  Expanding access to or improvement of curbside collection services wherever 
feasible. 
(B)  Expanding access to dropof f recycling services or other mechanisms where 
curbside collection services are not feasible, or as necessary in order to supplement 
curbside collection services to achieve the requirements of this chapter. 
(C)  Expanding access to collection services in public spaces. 

(D)  Providing or f acilitating deplo yment of inno vative enhanced collection, 
composting, and recycling systems and innovative recycling systems within a recycling 
center or MRF that utilizes adv anced technology, such as artificial intelligence and 
robotics, to improve the identification and sorting of covered materials, where feasible. 
(E)  Creation of on-premises access to rec ycling or composting services for 
multifamily residences. 
(F)  Funding, providing, or f acilitating the efficient transport of materials from 
remote or rural areas to centralized sorting f acilities, brokers, or viable responsible 
end markets. 
(G)  Enhancing e xisting materials rec ycling or composting infrastructure by 
developing a quality incentive payment, grants, and other mechanisms sufficient to 
cover the cost of separating, processing, baling, rec ycling, composting, 
remanufacturing, and transporting desired materials that meet viable responsible end 
market quality specifications, or for reducing the rate of inbound contamination to 
composting facilities. 
(H)  Infrastructure or other mechanisms needed to implement a source reduction 
plan, including, b ut not limited to, in vestments in reuse, refill, and composting 
infrastructure. 
(I)  Infrastructure or other activities needed to achieve recycling rates for all covered 
material under the plan and ensure covered material is recyclable or compostable. 
(4)  In developing the b udget, the PRO may delineate in vestments the PRO will 
make based on covered material categories. 
(j)  (1)  The plan shall include a budget designed to fully fund the costs necessary 
to implement this chapter. The budget shall include, but not be limited to, fully funding 
the plan and all other costs associated with implementing the plan, including, but not 
limited to, all of the following: 
(A)  Actions and investments identified in the plan to fund the b udget and needs 
and investments identified in the needs assessments. 
(B)  Costs associated with this chapter incurred by local jurisdictions, rec ycling 
service pro viders, and other collection programs, and costs related to consumer 
outreach and education; the transportation of covered materials to a materials recovery 
facility, broker, or viable responsible end market; cleaning, sorting, aggregating, and 
baling covered materials as necessary to bring those materials to a viable responsible 
end market; waste stream sampling and reporting required by this chapter for local 
governments; costs incurred to educate ratepayers to impro ve the preparation and 
sorting of covered material; and improvements to collection, sorting, decontamination, 
remanufacturing, and other infrastructure necessary to achieve recycling rates. These 
costs include costs related to both curbside and noncurbside collection programs and 
may be varied based on population density, distance to a viable responsible end market, 
and other relevant factors. 
(C)  Reimbursing costs incurred by the department and the California Department 
of Tax and Fee Administration. 
(D)  Administering the PRO. 
(E)  Environmental mitigation activities associated with Section 42064. 

(F)  Investments to de velop and sustain viable responsible end mark ets for each 
covered material category. 
(G)  Other investments necessary to implement the plan and achie ve the source 
reduction, recyclability and compostability, recycling rate, and other requirements of 
this chapter, including, but not limited to, ensuring that plan implementation a voids 
and minimizes negative environmental or public health impacts on disadvantaged or 
low-income communities or rural areas. 
(H)  If reasonable and able to be discretely directed, funding derived from a material 
type may be spent on investments needed for that specific material type. 
(2)  A producer or PRO shall not expend revenue collected for implementation of 
the plan for any of the following purposes: 
(A)  To pay an administrative civil penalty pursuant to Section 42081. 
(B)  To pay costs associated with litig ation between the producer or or ganization 
and the state. 
(C)  To compensate a person whose position is primarily representing the PR O 
relative to the passage, defeat, appro val, or modification of le gislation that is being 
considered by a local, state, or federal go vernment body, nor shall the PR O use or 
permit the use of these funds for paid adv ertisement 30 calendar days prior to or 
during a le gislative session for the purposes of encouraging the passage, defeat, 
approval, or modification of le gislation that is being considered, or w as considered 
during the previous legislative session. 
(D)  To subsidize, incenti vize, or otherwise support incineration, engineered 
municipal solid waste conversion, the production of energy or fuels, except for fuels 
produced using anaerobic digestion of source separated or ganic materials, or other 
disposal activities. 
(3)  (A)  A PRO shall not maintain total program reserves exceeding 60 percent of 
its annual operating e xpenses, consistent with the requirements of the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Update 2016-14, Not-for-Profit 
Entities (Topic 958), and any future updates to that standard. 
(B)  The department, in approving the annual PRO budget, may authorize the total 
reserves to be increased to up to 75 percent of the PRO’s annual operating expenses 
if the department determines the increase is necessary to implement the requirements 
of this chapter. 
(C)  If a PRO’s reserves exceed the amount specified in subparagraph (A) or (B), 
the department may require the PR O or a participant producer to increase spending 
on implementing the requirements of this chapter. 
(k)  Consistent with subdivision (l), as part of the plan, the PR O or a participant 
producer may rely on a range of means to collect and rec ycle or compost v arious 
categories of co vered materials that are not collected and rec ycled or composted 
through a curbside collection program or other local collection program, including, 
but not limited to, dropoff recycling services and retailer take-back. 
(l)  (1)  A plan shall include curbside rec ycling and composting collection for 
covered materials under any of the following circumstances: 

(A)  The category of covered materials can be made suitable for curbside collection 
and can be effectively sorted by the facilities receiving the curbside collected material 
for recycling or composting. 
(B)  The recycling facility providing processing and sorting service, in consultation 
with the local jurisdiction, agrees to include the cate gory of covered materials as an 
accepted material for rec ycling or composting and agrees to collect and sort the 
material in a manner that achie ves the quality necessary for rec ycling and 
remanufacturing or composting. 
(C)  The provider of the curbside collection and rec ycling or composting service 
agrees to the costs arrangement. 
(2)  If a MRF chooses to send material to another sorting f acility for additional 
sorting and recycling of covered materials, the PRO shall provide the initial MRF a 
rebate based on criteria the PR O shall de velop to co ver transportation costs of the 
covered materials provided the covered material is free of toxic or hazardous materials. 
(m)  The plan shall include specific measures to ensure that producers participating 
in the plan comply with the requirements of the plan and this chapter. Those measures 
shall include, at a minimum, all of the following elements: 
(1)  Adequate incentives for compliance, including, b ut not limited to, fees for 
failing to provide accurate and timely information required to be provided to the PRO 
or otherwise materially violating requirements of the plan or this chapter . 
Notwithstanding the PRO’s assessment of a fee, the department may take enforcement 
action pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section 42080) ag ainst individual 
producers or the PRO in violation of this chapter. 
(2)  Protocols to ensure that the PRO becomes aware, within a reasonable time, of 
producers’ violations of the requirements of the plan or this chapter. 
(3)  Criteria for determining when a producer’ s performance merits terminating 
the producer’ s participation in the PR O’s plan, and a process for making that 
determination. 
(4)  Record maintenance protocols requiring the PRO to maintain records sufficient 
to demonstrate whether each producer participating in the plan has complied with the 
requirements of the plan and this chapter for at least the previous three years. Those 
protocols shall ensure that all records remain reasonably accessible by the department 
upon request. 
(5)  The plan shall include the specific data information required under subdivision 
(c) of Section 42057. 
(n)  The PRO shall ensure that the plan implementation avoids or minimizes negative 
environmental or public health impacts on disadvantaged or low-income communities 
or rural areas and vulnerable communities outside the state. 
(Amended by Stats. 2023, Ch. 848, Sec. 6.  (AB 1526)  Effective January 1, 2024.) 