State of California 
PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE 
Section  42067 
42067. (a)  The department shall prepare one or more initial state wide needs 
assessments designed to determine the necessary steps and in vestment needed for 
covered material, by co vered material category, to achieve the requirements of this 
chapter. Needs assessments, or components thereof, shall be updated every five years 
or as necessary to ensure the requirements of this chapter are met. An initial needs 
assessment for specific co vered material shall be completed before the completion 
and approval of any producer responsibility plan that includes that covered material. 
The department may select an independent third-party contractor to complete the 
needs assessment. The department or the third-party contractor shall consult with the 
PRO and local jurisdictions when developing the needs assessment. 
(b)  The PRO shall reimburse the department for the cost of developing any needs 
assessment and any update to a needs assessment. 
(c)  The department may prepare either se veral needs assessments, with each 
assessment specific to one or more covered materials subject to this chapter, or may 
prepare one comprehensive needs assessment that includes all covered material subject 
to this chapter. 
(d)  The department shall guide de velopment of a needs assessment, which shall 
be developed in collaboration with the PRO and a broad diversity of local jurisdictions, 
recycling service pro viders, and processors that reflect the dif ferent needs and 
challenges faced by urban, suburban, and rural communities and a variety of different 
population densities and socioeconomic perspecti ves and that choose to participate 
in the development of a needs assessment. 
(e)  A needs assessment shall comply with all of the following: 
(1)  Be designed to inform the PRO budget and PRO plan. 
(2)  Include an evaluation of all of the following with respect to covered materials 
and covered material categories: 
(A)  Existing state statutory pro visions and funding sources related to mark et 
development and financial incenti ves to help achie ve the state’ s goals related to 
recycling, composting, reuse, reduction, and recovery. 
(B)  The current recycling, composting, collection, and hauling system in the state 
and the expanded access and additional recycling or composting options needed for 
enhancements to the system. 
(C)  The existing access to on-premises recycling and composting for multifamily 
residences, and the need to expand that access. 

(D)  The processing capacity and infrastructure in the state and regionally and the 
ability for inno vative and adv anced technologies such as artificial intelligence and 
robotics to improve that capacity. 
(E)  Current market conditions and the need to create viable responsible end markets 
in the state and regionally. 
(F)  Consumer education needs for recycling, composting, reuse, and reduction. 
(G)  Funding needs and actions necessary to achieve the requirements of this chapter, 
including payments to rec yclers, mark et incenti ve payments, or other payments 
necessary to achieve the requirements of this chapter. 
(H)  Actions and investments necessary to provide sufficient access to collection, 
recycling, composting, processing, and transportation to viable responsible end 
markets. 
(I)  An evaluation of the availability or lack of availability of markets for recycled 
covered material, the need to incenti vize rec ycled or composted material mark et 
development, and the associated in vestments and actions needed to ensure that the 
covered materials are recycled or composted and have viable and sufficient responsible 
end markets to meet the requirements of Section 42050. 
(J)  Factors contributing to contamination and actions and in vestments needed to 
avoid contamination and improve recycled and composted material in order to ensure 
the material meets quality requirements for remanufacturing. 
(K)  Availability of responsible end markets and mechanisms to identify and expand 
responsible end markets. The evaluation shall include identification of measures to 
avoid and minimize environmental and public health impacts on communities where 
recycling occurs. 
(3)  Include an evaluation of all of the following with respect to covered material: 
(A)  The needs associated with shifting packaging or food service w are from a 
covered material category that is unlikely to develop sustained viable responsible end 
markets to a covered material category that either has a viable responsible end market 
or is likely to develop a sustained viable responsible end market. 
(B)  Actions and in vestments necessary to impro ve co vered material design to 
improve recyclability and compostability. 
(C)  Funding needed to implement the source reduction requirements established 
in Section 42057, including, but not limited to, investments needed to develop reuse 
and refill infrastructure and to pro vide consumers with con venient access to that 
infrastructure to grow and mark et the use of reusable and refillable packaging and 
food service ware. 
(D)  An evaluation of integrating innovative and advanced technologies throughout 
a MRF that utilize artificial intelligence to improve data collection in order to identify, 
categorize, and track the disposition of co vered materials throughout the rec ycling 
process. 
(E)  An evaluation of actions and investments that would be effective in achieving 
source reduction requirements. 
(4)  The needs assessment shall not propose investing in activities contrary to the 
intent described in Section 40004 or in violation of an agreement entered into pursuant 

to Section 40059 and shall include a mechanism to disb urse funds for identified 
activities. 
(5)  The needs assessment may include, b ut shall not be limited to, elements that 
will accomplish all of the following: 
(A)  Expanding access to or improvement of curbside collection services wherever 
feasible. 
(B)  Expanding access to dropof f recycling services or other mechanisms where 
curbside collection services are not feasible, or as necessary in order to supplement 
curbside collection services to achieve the requirements of this chapter. 
(C)  Expanding access to collection services in public spaces. 
(D)  Providing or f acilitating deplo yment of inno vative enhanced collection, 
composting, and recycling systems and innovative recycling systems within a recycling 
center or MRF that utilizes adv anced technology, such as artificial intelligence and 
robotics, to improve the identification and sorting of covered materials, where feasible. 
(E)  An evaluation of actions and investments that would be effective in achieving 
source reduction requirements. 
(F)  Creation of on-premises access to rec ycling or composting services for 
multifamily residences. 
(G)  Funding, providing, or f acilitating the efficient transport of materials from 
remote or rural areas to centralized sorting f acilities, brokers, or viable responsible 
end markets. 
(H)  Enhancing e xisting materials rec ycling or composting infrastructure by 
developing a quality incentive payment, grants, and other mechanisms sufficient to 
cover the cost of separating, processing, baling, rec ycling, composting, 
remanufacturing, and transporting desired materials that meet viable responsible end 
market quality specifications, or for reducing the rate of inbound contamination to 
composting facilities. 
(I)  Infrastructure or other mechanisms needed to implement a source reduction 
plan, including, b ut not limited to, in vestments in reuse, refill, and composting 
infrastructure. 
(J)  Infrastructure or other activities needed to achieve recycling rates for all covered 
material under the plan and ensure covered material is recyclable or compostable. 
(f)  (1)  The initial needs assessment, and an y updates, shall be submitted to the 
advisory board. 
(2)  Development of a needs assessment by the department pursuant to this section 
is exempt from Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 
3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. 
(g)  The initial needs assessment, and an y updates, shall be de veloped through a 
public process including at least one public meeting at which the department provides 
the PRO, the advisory board, and any interested members of the public the opportunity 
for input. 
(Amended by Stats. 2023, Ch. 848, Sec. 11.  (AB 1526)  Effective January 1, 2024.) 