Senate Bill No. 243 
CHAPTER 677 
An act to add Chapter 22.6 (commencing with Section 22601) to Division 
8 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to artificial intelligence. 
[Approved by Governor October 13, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 13, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
SB 243, Padilla. Companion chatbots. 
Existing law requires a social media platform to tak e various steps to 
prevent cyberbullying of minors on the platform, including by requiring the 
platform to establish a prominent mechanism within its internet-based service 
that allows any individual, whether or not that indi vidual has a profile on 
the internet-based service, to report cyberbullying or any content that violates 
the existing terms of service related to cyberbullying. Existing law authorizes 
the State Department of Public Health to establish the Office of Suicide 
Prevention in the department, as prescribed. 
This bill would, among other things related to making a companion chatbot 
platform safer for users, if a reasonable person interacting with a companion 
chatbot would be misled to belie ve that the person is interacting with a 
human, require an operator of a companion chatbot platform to issue a clear 
and conspicuous notification indicating that the companion chatbot is 
artificially generated and not human. The bill would also require an operator 
to take certain actions with respect to a user the operator knows is a minor, 
including disclose to the user that the user is interacting with artificial 
intelligence. The bill would also require an operator to prevent a companion 
chatbot on its companion chatbot platform from engaging with users unless 
the operator maintains a protocol for preventing the production of suicidal 
ideation, suicide, or self-harm content to the user , as specified, and would 
require an operator to publish details on that protocol on the operator’ s 
internet website. 
This bill would, beginning July 1, 2027, require an operator to annually 
report to the Office of Suicide Prevention certain things, including protocols 
put in place to detect, remove, and respond to instances of suicidal ideation 
by users, and w ould require the office to post data from that report on its 
internet website. The bill w ould authorize a person who suf fers injury in 
fact as a result of noncompliance with the bill to bring a certain civil action. 
  
 92 
  

The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Chapter 22.6 (commencing with Section 22601) is added 
to Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, to read: 
Chapter  22.6.  Companion Chatbots 
22601. As used in this chapter: 
(a)  “Artificial intelligence” means an engineered or machine-based system 
that varies in its le vel of autonomy and that can, for e xplicit or implicit 
objectives, infer from the input it receives how to generate outputs that can 
influence physical or virtual environments. 
(b)  (1)  “Companion chatbot” means an artificial intelligence system 
with a natural language interf ace that pro vides adapti ve, human-lik e 
responses to user inputs and is capable of meeting a user’ s social needs, 
including by exhibiting anthropomorphic features and being able to sustain 
a relationship across multiple interactions. 
(2)  “Companion chatbot” does not include any of the following: 
(A)  A bot that is used only for customer service, a business’ operational 
purposes, productivity and analysis related to source information, internal 
research, or technical assistance. 
(B)  A bot that is a feature of a video game and is limited to replies related 
to the video g ame that cannot discuss topics related to mental health, 
self-harm, sexually explicit conduct, or maintain a dialogue on other topics 
unrelated to the video game. 
(C)  A stand-alone consumer electronic device that functions as a speaker 
and voice command interf ace, acts as a v oice-activated virtual assistant, 
and does not sustain a relationship across multiple interactions or generate 
outputs that are likely to elicit emotional responses in the user. 
(c)  “Companion chatbot platform” means a platform that allo ws a user 
to engage with companion chatbots. 
(d)  “Office” means the Office of Suicide Prevention established pursuant 
to Section 131300 of the Health and Safety Code. 
(e)  “Operator” means a person who makes a companion chatbot platform 
available to a user in the state. 
(f)  “Sexually explicit conduct” has the meaning defined in Section 2256 
of Title 18 of the United States Code. 
(g)  “Video game” means a g ame played on an electronic amusement 
device that utilizes a computer, microprocessor, or similar electronic circuitry 
and its o wn monitor, or is designed to be used with a tele vision set or a 
computer monitor, that interacts with the user of the device. 
22602. (a)  If a reasonable person interacting with a companion chatbot 
would be misled to believe that the person is interacting with a human, an 
operator shall issue a clear and conspicuous notification indicating that the 
companion chatbot is artificially generated and not human. 
92 
— 2 — Ch. 677 
  

(b)  (1)  An operator shall prevent a companion chatbot on its companion 
chatbot platform from engaging with users unless the operator maintains a 
protocol for pre venting the production of suicidal ideation, suicide, or 
self-harm content to the user, including, but not limited to, by providing a 
notification to the user that refers the user to crisis service pro viders, 
including a suicide hotline or crisis text line, if the user expresses suicidal 
ideation, suicide, or self-harm. 
(2)  The operator shall publish details on the protocol required by this 
subdivision on the operator’s internet website. 
(c)  An operator shall, for a user that the operator kno ws is a minor, do 
all of the following: 
(1)  Disclose to the user that the user is interacting with artificial 
intelligence. 
(2)  Provide by default a clear and conspicuous notification to the user at 
least every three hours for continuing companion chatbot interactions that 
reminds the user to take a break and that the companion chatbot is artificially 
generated and not human. 
(3)  Institute reasonable measures to prevent its companion chatbot from 
producing visual material of se xually explicit conduct or directly stating 
that the minor should engage in sexually explicit conduct. 
22603. (a)  Beginning July 1, 2027, an operator shall annually report to 
the office all of the following: 
(1)  The number of times the operator has issued a crisis service provider 
referral notification pursuant to Section 22602 in the preceding calendar 
year. 
(2)  Protocols put in place to detect, remove, and respond to instances of 
suicidal ideation by users. 
(3)  Protocols put in place to prohibit a companion chatbot response about 
suicidal ideation or actions with the user. 
(b)  The report required by this section shall include only the information 
listed in subdi vision (a) and shall not include an y identifiers or personal 
information about users. 
(c)  The office shall post data from a report required by this section on 
its internet website. 
(d)  An operator shall use evidence-based methods for measuring suicidal 
ideation. 
22604. An operator shall disclose to a user of its companion chatbot 
platform, on the application, the bro wser, or an y other format that a user 
can use to access the companion chatbot platform, that companion chatbots 
may not be suitable for some minors. 
22605. A person who suffers injury in fact as a result of a violation of 
this chapter may bring a civil action to recover all of the following relief: 
(a)  Injunctive relief. 
(b)  Damages in an amount equal to the greater of actual damages or one 
thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation. 
(c)  Reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. 
92 
Ch. 677 — 3 — 
  

22606. The duties, remedies, and oblig ations imposed by this chapter 
are cumulative to the duties, remedies, or obligations imposed under other 
law and shall not be construed to relie ve an operator from an y duties, 
remedies, or obligations imposed under any other law. 
SEC. 2. The provisions of this act are severable. If any provision of this 
act or its application is held in valid, that in validity shall not af fect other 
provisions or applications that can be gi ven ef fect without the in valid 
provision or application. 
O 
92 
— 4 — Ch. 677 
  