Senate Bill No. 446 
CHAPTER 319 
An act to amend Section 1798.82 of the Civil Code, relating to personal 
information. 
[Approved by Governor October 3, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 3, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
SB 446, Hurtado. Data breaches: customer notification. 
Existing law requires an individual or a business that conducts business 
in California, and that o wns or licenses computerized data that includes 
personal information, to disclose a breach of the security of the system 
following discovery or notification of the breach in the security of the data 
to a resident of California whose unencrypted personal information w as 
compromised, as specified, and requires that disclosure to be made in the 
most expedient time possible and without unreasonable delay , consistent 
with the legitimate needs of law enforcement, as specified, or any measures 
necessary to determine the scope of the breach and restore the reasonable 
integrity of the data system. 
This bill would require that data breach disclosure to be made within 30 
calendar days of disco very or notification of the data breach b ut would 
authorize an individual or business to delay the disclosure to accommodate 
the legitimate needs of la w enforcement, as specified, or as necessary to 
determine the scope of the breach and restore the reasonable inte grity of 
the data system. 
Existing law also requires an indi vidual or b usiness that is required to 
issue the security breach notification described abo ve to more than 500 
California residents as a result of a single breach of the security system to 
electronically submit a single sample cop y of that security breach 
notification, e xcluding an y personally identifiable information, to the 
Attorney General. 
This bill w ould require that submission to the Attorney General to be 
made within 15 calendar days of notifying affected consumers of the security 
breach. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 1798.82 of the Civil Code is amended to read: 
1798.82. (a)  (1)  An individual or b usiness that conducts b usiness in 
California, and that owns or licenses computerized data that includes personal 
information, shall disclose a breach of the security of the system following 
  
 95 
  

discovery or notification of the breach in the security of the data to a resident 
of California whose unencrypted personal information was, or is reasonably 
believed to ha ve been, acquired by an unauthorized person, or whose 
encrypted personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, 
acquired by an unauthorized person and the encryption k ey or security 
credential w as, or is reasonably belie ved to ha ve been, acquired by an 
unauthorized person, and the person or b usiness that owns or licenses the 
encrypted information has a reasonable belief that the encryption k ey or 
security credential could render that personal information readable or usable. 
(2)  (A)  Subject to subparagraph (B), the disclosure required by this 
subdivision shall be made within 30 calendar days of disco very or 
notification of the data breach. 
(B)  An individual or business may delay the disclosure required by this 
subdivision to accommodate the le gitimate needs of la w enforcement, 
pursuant to subdivision (c), or as necessary to determine the scope of the 
breach and restore the reasonable integrity of the data system. 
(b)  An indi vidual or b usiness that maintains computerized data that 
includes personal information that the individual or business does not own 
shall notify the o wner or licensee of the information of the breach of the 
security of the data immediately follo wing disco very, if the personal 
information was, or is reasonably belie ved to ha ve been, acquired by an 
unauthorized person. 
(c)  The notification required by this section may be delayed if a la w 
enforcement agency determines that the notification will impede a criminal 
investigation. The notification required by this section shall be made 
promptly after the la w enforcement agenc y determines that it will not 
compromise the investigation. 
(d)  An individual or business that is required to issue a security breach 
notification pursuant to this section shall meet all of the follo wing 
requirements: 
(1)  The security breach notification shall be written in plain language, 
shall be titled “Notice of Data Breach, ” and shall present the information 
described in paragraph (2) under the following headings: “What Happened?” 
“What Information Was Involved?” “What We Are Doing,” “What You 
Can Do,” and “F or More Information. ” Additional information may be 
provided as a supplement to the notice. 
(A)  The format of the notice shall be designed to call attention to the 
nature and significance of the information it contains. 
(B)  The title and headings in the notice shall be clearly and conspicuously 
displayed. 
(C)  The text of the notice and any other notice provided pursuant to this 
section shall be no smaller than 10-point type. 
(D)  For a written notice described in paragraph (1) of subdi vision (j), 
use of the model security breach notification form prescribed below or use 
of the headings described in this paragraph with the information described 
in paragraph (2), written in plain language, shall be deemed to be in 
compliance with this subdivision. 
95 
— 2 — Ch. 319 
  

[NAME OF INSTITUTION / LOGO] Date: [insert date] 
NOTICE OF DATA BREACH 
    
  
What Happened? 
  
  
  
    
  
What Information 
Was Involved? 
  
  
    
  
What We Are 
Doing. 
  
  
    
  
What You Can 
Do. 
  
  
  
Other Important Information. 
[insert other important information] 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Call [telephone number] or go to [internet website]   
For More 
Information. 
  
95 
Ch. 319 — 3 — 
  

(E)  For an electronic notice described in paragraph (2) of subdi vision 
(j), use of the headings described in this paragraph with the information 
described in paragraph (2), written in plain language, shall be deemed to be 
in compliance with this subdivision. 
(2)  The security breach notification described in paragraph (1) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following information: 
(A)  The name and contact information of the reporting indi vidual or 
business subject to this section. 
(B)  A list of the types of personal information that were or are reasonably 
believed to have been the subject of a breach. 
(C)  If the information is possible to determine at the time the notice is 
provided, then an y of the follo wing: (i) the date of the breach, (ii) the 
estimated date of the breach, or (iii) the date range within which the breach 
occurred. The notification shall also include the date of the notice. 
(D)  Whether notification was delayed as a result of a la w enforcement 
investigation, if that information is possible to determine at the time the 
notice is provided. 
(E)  A general description of the breach incident, if that information is 
possible to determine at the time the notice is provided. 
(F)  The toll-free telephone numbers and addresses of the major credit 
reporting agencies if the breach e xposed a social security number or a 
driver’s license or California identification card number. 
(G)  If the individual or business providing the notification was the source 
of the breach, an offer to provide appropriate identity theft prevention and 
mitigation services, if an y, shall be pro vided at no cost to the af fected 
individual for not less than 12 months along with all information necessary 
to take advantage of the offer to any individual whose information was or 
may have been breached if the breach exposed or may have exposed personal 
information defined in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of 
subdivision (h). 
(3)  At the discretion of the indi vidual or b usiness, the security breach 
notification may also include any of the following: 
(A)  Information about what the individual or business has done to protect 
individuals whose information has been breached. 
(B)  Advice on steps that people whose information has been breached 
may take to protect themselves. 
(C)  In breaches involving biometric data, instructions on ho w to notify 
other entities that used the same type of biometric data as an authenticator 
to no longer rely on data for authentication purposes. 
(e)  A covered entity under the federal Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1320d et seq.) will be deemed 
to have complied with the notice requirements in subdi vision (d) if it has 
complied completely with Section 13402(f) of the federal Health Information 
Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (Public La w 111-5). 
However, nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to exempt a covered 
entity from any other provision of this section. 
95 
— 4 — Ch. 319 
  

(f)  An individual or business that is required to issue a security breach 
notification pursuant to this section to more than 500 California residents 
as a result of a single breach of the security system shall electronically 
submit a single sample copy of that security breach notification, excluding 
any personally identifiable information, to the Attorney General within 15 
calendar days of notifying af fected consumers of the security breach. A 
single sample copy of a security breach notification shall not be deemed to 
be within Article 1 (commencing with Section 7923.600) of Chapter 1 of 
Part 5 of Division 10 of Title 1 of the Government Code. 
(g)  For purposes of this section, “breach of the security of the system” 
means unauthorized acquisition of computerized data that compromises the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of personal information maintained by 
the individual or business. Good faith acquisition of personal information 
by an employee or agent of the indi vidual or business for the purposes of 
the individual or b usiness is not a breach of the security of the system, 
provided that the personal information is not used or subject to further 
unauthorized disclosure. 
(h)  For purposes of this section, “personal information” means either of 
the following: 
(1)  An individual’s first name or first initial and last name in combination 
with any one or more of the following data elements, when either the name 
or the data elements are not encrypted: 
(A)  Social security number. 
(B)  Driver’s license number, California identification card number , tax 
identification number, passport number, military identification number, or 
other unique identification number issued on a go vernment document 
commonly used to verify the identity of a specific individual. 
(C)  Account number or credit or debit card number, in combination with 
any required security code, access code, or passw ord that w ould permit 
access to an individual’s financial account. 
(D)  Medical information. 
(E)  Health insurance information. 
(F)  Unique biometric data generated from measurements or technical 
analysis of human body characteristics, such as a fingerprint, retina, or iris 
image, used to authenticate a specific indi vidual. Unique biometric data 
does not include a physical or digital photograph, unless used or stored for 
facial recognition purposes. 
(G)  Information or data collected through the use or operation of an 
automated license plate recognition system, as defined in Section 1798.90.5. 
(H)  Genetic data. 
(2)  A username or email address, in combination with a passw ord or 
security question and answer that would permit access to an online account. 
(i)  (1)  For purposes of this section, “personal information” does not 
include publicly a vailable information that is la wfully made a vailable to 
the general public from federal, state, or local government records. 
95 
Ch. 319 — 5 — 
  

(2)  For purposes of this section, “medical information” means an y 
information regarding an individual’s medical history, mental or ph ysical 
condition, or medical treatment or diagnosis by a health care professional. 
(3)  For purposes of this section, “health insurance information” means 
an individual’s health insurance policy number or subscriber identification 
number, an y unique identifier used by a health insurer to identify the 
individual, or an y information in an indi vidual’s application and claims 
history, including any appeals records. 
(4)  For purposes of this section, “encrypted” means rendered unusable, 
unreadable, or indecipherable to an unauthorized person through a security 
technology or methodology generally accepted in the field of information 
security. 
(5)  “Genetic data” means any data, regardless of its format, that results 
from the analysis of a biological sample of an indi vidual, or from another 
source enabling equivalent information to be obtained, and concerns genetic 
material. Genetic material includes, but is not limited to, deoxyribonucleic 
acids (DN A), ribonucleic acids (RN A), genes, chromosomes, alleles, 
genomes, alterations or modifications to DN A or RNA, single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs), uninterpreted data that results from analysis of the 
biological sample or other source, and any information extrapolated, derived, 
or inferred therefrom. 
(j)  For purposes of this section, “notice” may be provided by one of the 
following methods: 
(1)  Written notice. 
(2)  Electronic notice, if the notice pro vided is consistent with the 
provisions regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in Section 
7001 of Title 15 of the United States Code. 
(3)  Substitute notice, if the individual or business demonstrates that the 
cost of providing notice would exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars 
($250,000), or that the affected class of subject persons to be notified exceeds 
500,000, or the indi vidual or b usiness does not ha ve sufficient contact 
information. Substitute notice shall consist of all of the following: 
(A)  Email notice when the indi vidual or business has an email address 
for the subject persons. 
(B)  Conspicuous posting, for a minimum of 30 days, of the notice on the 
internet website page of the indi vidual or b usiness, if the indi vidual or 
business maintains one. F or purposes of this subparagraph, conspicuous 
posting on the individual’s or business’s internet website means providing 
a link to the notice on the home page or first significant page after entering 
the internet website that is in lar ger type than the surrounding te xt, or in 
contrasting type, font, or color to the surrounding te xt of the same size, or 
set off from the surrounding text of the same size by symbols or other marks 
that call attention to the link. 
(C)  Notification to major statewide media. 
(4)  In the case of a breach of the security of the system involving personal 
information defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) for an online account, 
and no other personal information defined in paragraph (1) of subdi vision 
95 
— 6 — Ch. 319 
  

(h), the individual or business may comply with this section by pro viding 
the security breach notification in electronic or other form that directs the 
individual whose personal information has been breached promptly to change 
the individual’s password and security question or answer , as applicable, 
or to tak e other steps appropriate to protect the online account with the 
individual or business and all other online accounts for which the individual 
whose personal information has been breached uses the same username or 
email address and password or security question or answer. 
(5)  In the case of a breach of the security of the system involving personal 
information defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) for login credentials 
of an email account furnished by the individual or business, the individual 
or business shall not comply with this section by pro viding the security 
breach notification to that email address, but may, instead, comply with this 
section by providing notice by another method described in this subdivision 
or by clear and conspicuous notice deli vered to the resident online when 
the resident is connected to the online account from an Internet Protocol 
address or online location from which the individual or business knows the 
resident customarily accesses the account. 
(k)  For purposes of this section, “encryption k ey” and “security 
credential” mean the confidential k ey or process designed to render data 
usable, readable, and decipherable. 
(l)  Notwithstanding subdi vision (j), an indi vidual or b usiness that 
maintains its own notification procedures as part of an information security 
policy for the treatment of personal information and is otherwise consistent 
with the timing requirements of this part shall be deemed to be in compliance 
with the notification requirements of this section if the individual or business 
notifies subject individuals in accordance with its policies in the event of a 
breach of security of the system. 
O 
95 
Ch. 319 — 7 — 
  