Senate Bill No. 524 
CHAPTER 587 
An act to add Section 13663 to the Penal Code, relating to la w 
enforcement agencies. 
[Approved by Governor October 10, 2025. Filed with Secretary 
of State October 10, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
SB 524, Arreguín. Law enforcement agencies: artificial intelligence. 
Existing law generally pro vides for the re gulation of la w enforcement 
agencies, including, among other things, requiring each local la w 
enforcement agency to conspicuously post on their internet websites all 
current standards, policies, practices, operating procedures, and education 
and training materials that would otherwise be available to the public under 
specified circumstances. 
This bill would require each law enforcement agency to maintain a policy 
to require an official report prepared by a la w enforcement officer or an y 
member of a la w enforcement agenc y that is generated using artificial 
intelligence either fully or partially to include specified information, 
including a disclosure statement and the signature of the la w enforcement 
officer or member of a la w enforcement agency who prepared the official 
report, as specified. If an officer or any member of an agency uses artificial 
intelligence to create an official report, the bill would require the first draft 
created to be retained for as long as the official report is retained. The bill 
would, except for the official report, prohibit a draft of an y report created 
with the use of artificial intelligence from constituting an officer’s statement. 
The bill would require an agency utilizing artificial intelligence to generate 
a first draft or official report to maintain an audit trail that identifies, at a 
minimum, certain things, including the person who used artificial intelligence 
to create a report. The bill would prohibit a contracted vendor from sharing, 
selling, or otherwise using information pro vided by a la w enforcement 
agency to be processed by artificial intelligence, e xcept as provided. The 
bill would define terms for purposes of these provisions. 
By requiring local law enforcement agencies to adopt a new policy, this 
bill would impose a state-mandated local program. 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies 
and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory 
provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. 
This bill w ould pro vide that, if the Commission on State Mandates 
determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement 
for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory pro visions noted 
above. 
  
 91 
  

The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 13663 is added to the Penal Code, to read: 
13663. (a)  Each la w enforcement agenc y shall maintain a polic y to 
require an official report prepared by a la w enforcement officer or an y 
member of a la w enforcement agenc y that is generated using artificial 
intelligence either fully or partially to contain both of the following: 
(1)  On each page of the official report, or within the body of the te xt, 
identify every specific artificial intelligence program used in a manner that 
makes such identification readily apparent to the reader and prominently 
state the following: 
“This report was written either fully or in part using artificial intelligence.” 
(2)  The signature of the la w enforcement officer or member of a la w 
enforcement agency who prepared the official report, either in ph ysical or 
electronic form, verifying that they reviewed the contents of that report and 
that the facts contained in the official report are true and correct. 
(b)  (1)  If a law enforcement officer or any member of a law enforcement 
agency uses artificial intelligence to create an official report, whether fully 
or partially, the first draft created shall be retained by the agency for as long 
as the official report is retained. 
(2)  Except for the official report, a draft of an y report created with the 
use of artificial intelligence shall not constitute an officer’s statement. 
(c)  The agency utilizing artificial intelligence to generate a first draft or 
official report shall maintain an audit trail for as long as the official report 
is retained that, at a minimum, identifies both of the following: 
(1)  The person who used artificial intelligence to create a report. 
(2)  The video and audio footage used to create a report, if any. 
(d)  (1)  A contracted v endor shall not share, sell, or otherwise use 
information pro vided by a la w enforcement agenc y to be processed by 
artificial intelligence except for either of the following purposes: 
(A)  The contracted law enforcement agency’s purposes. 
(B)  Pursuant to a court order. 
(2)  A contracted v endor may access data processed by artificial 
intelligence for the purposes of troubleshooting, bias mitig ation, accuracy 
improvement, or system refinement. 
(e)  For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply: 
(1)  “Artificial intelligence” means an engineered or machine-based system 
that varies in its le vel of autonomy and that can, for e xplicit or implicit 
objectives, infer from the input it receives how to generate outputs that can 
influence physical or virtual environments. “Artificial intelligence” as used 
in this section applies to artificial intelligence systems that automatically 
draft police report narrati ves based upon an analysis of in-car or 
dash-mounted cameras, or body-worn camera audio or video, and artificial 
intelligence systems that analyze a law enforcement officer’s dictated report 
to generate a police report narrative automatically enhanced by generative 
artificial intelligence. 
91 
— 2 — Ch. 587 
  

(2)  “Contracted vendor” means a third party which has made artificial 
intelligence available to la w enforcement for the purpose of generating a 
draft police report. 
(3)  “First draft” means the initial document or narrative produced solely 
by artificial intelligence. 
(4)  “Law enforcement agency” means any department or agency of the 
state or any local government, special district, or other political subdivision 
thereof, that employs any peace officer, as described in Section 830. 
(5)  “Official report” means the final version of the report that is signed 
by the officer under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a). 
SEC. 2. If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act 
contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and 
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing 
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code. 
O 
91 
Ch. 587 — 3 — 
  