Senate Bill No. 53 
CHAPTER 138 
An act to add Chapter 25.1 (commencing with Section 22757.10) to 
Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, to add Section 11546.8 
to the Government Code, and to add Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 
1107) to P art 3 of Di vision 2 of the Labor Code, relating to artificial 
intelligence. 
[Approved by Governor September 29, 2025. Filed with 
Secretary of State September 29, 2025.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
SB 53, Wiener. Artificial intelligence models: large developers. 
(1)  Existing law generally regulates artificial intelligence, including by 
requiring, on or before January 1, 2026, and before each time thereafter , 
that a generati ve artificial intelligence system or service, or a substantial 
modification to a generative artificial intelligence system or service, released 
on or after January 1, 2022, is made publicly a vailable to Californians for 
use, the developer of the system or service to post on the developer’s internet 
website documentation regarding the data used by the developer to train the 
generative artificial intelligence system or service, as prescribed. 
This bill would enact the Transparency in Frontier Artificial Intelligence 
Act (TFAIA) that would, among other things related to ensuring the safety 
of a foundation model, as defined, developed by a frontier developer, require 
a large frontier developer to write, implement, and clearly and conspicuously 
publish on its internet website a frontier AI framework that applies to the 
large frontier developer’s frontier models and describes how the large frontier 
developer approaches, among other things, incorporating national standards, 
international standards, and industry-consensus best practices into its frontier 
AI framework. The TFAIA would also require a large frontier developer to 
transmit to the Office of Emergency Services a summary of any assessment 
of catastrophic risk, as defined, resulting from internal use of its frontier 
models, as specified. The TFAIA would require the Office of Emer gency 
Services to establish a mechanism to be used by a frontier de veloper or a 
member of the public to report, as prescribed, a critical safety incident, as 
defined, and w ould also require the Office of Emer gency Services to 
establish a mechanism to be used by a lar ge frontier de veloper to 
confidentially submit summaries of an y assessments of the potential for 
catastrophic risk resulting from internal use of its frontier models, as 
prescribed. 
The TFAIA w ould e xempt from the California Public Records Act a 
report of a critical safety incident submitted to the Office of Emer gency 
Services, a report of assessments of catastrophic risk from internet use, and 
  
 90 
  

a covered employee report made pursuant to the whistleblower protections 
described below. 
The TFAIA would impose a ci vil penalty for noncompliance with the 
TFAIA to be enforced by the Attorney General, as prescribed. 
(2)  Existing law establishes the Department of Technology within the 
Government Operations Agency. Existing la w requires the department to 
conduct, in coordination with other interagenc y bodies as it deems 
appropriate, a comprehensive inventory of all high-risk automated decision 
systems that have been proposed for use, development, or procurement by, 
or are being used, developed, or procured by, any state agency. 
This bill w ould establish within the Go vernment Operations Agency a 
consortium required to de velop a frame work for the creation of a public 
cloud computing cluster to be kno wn as “CalCompute” that adv ances the 
development and deployment of artificial intelligence that is safe, ethical, 
equitable, and sustainable by , among other things, fostering research and 
innovation that benefits the public, as prescribed. The bill w ould require 
the Government Operations Agency to, on or before January 1, 2027, submit 
a report from the consortium to the Le gislature with that frame work and 
would dissolve the consortium upon submission of that report. The bill 
would make those pro visions operative only upon an appropriation in a 
budget act, or other measure, for its purposes. 
(3)  Existing la w prohibits emplo yers and their agents from making, 
adopting, or enforcing a rule, regulation, or policy preventing an employee 
from disclosing information to certain entities or from providing information 
to, or testifying before, any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, 
or inquiry if the emplo yee has reasonable cause to belie ve that the 
information discloses a violation of a la w, as specified, and prohibits 
retaliation against an emplo yee for, among other things, e xercising these 
rights. 
This bill would, among other things related to protecting whistleblowers 
working with foundation models, prohibit a frontier developer from making, 
adopting, enforcing, or entering into a rule, re gulation, policy, or contract 
that prevents a covered employee, as defined, from disclosing, or retaliates 
against a co vered emplo yee for disclosing, information to the Attorney 
General, a federal authority , a person with authority o ver the co vered 
employee, or another co vered employee who has authority to in vestigate, 
discover, or correct the reported issue, if the co vered emplo yee has 
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses that the frontier 
developer’s activities pose a specific and substantial danger to the public 
health or safety resulting from a catastrophic risk or that the frontier 
developer has violated the TFAIA. 
This bill w ould require a lar ge frontier de veloper to pro vide a certain 
internal process through which a co vered emplo yee may anon ymously 
disclose information to the large frontier developer if the covered employee 
believes in good faith that the information indicates that the lar ge frontier 
developer’s activities present a specific and substantial danger to the public 
health or safety resulting from a catastrophic risk or that the lar ge frontier 
90 
— 2 — Ch. 138 
  

developer violated the TFAIA. The bill would specify provisions particular 
to the enforcement of those whistleblower protections and would authorize 
attorney’s fees to a plaintiff who brings a successful action for a violation. 
This bill would preempt any rule, regulation, code, ordinance, or other 
law adopted by a city, county, city and county, municipality, or local agency 
on or after January 1, 2025, specifically related to the regulation of frontier 
developers with respect to their management of catastrophic risk. 
Existing constitutional pro visions require that a statute that limits the 
right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public 
officials and agencies be adopted with findings demonstrating the interest 
protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest. 
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following: 
(a)  California is leading the w orld in artificial intelligence inno vation 
and research through companies lar ge and small and through the state’ s 
remarkable public and private universities. 
(b)  Artificial intelligence, including new advances in foundation models, 
has the potential to catalyze innovation and the rapid development of a wide 
range of benefits for Californians and the California economy , including 
advances in medicine, wildfire forecasting and pre vention, and climate 
science, and to push the bounds of human creativity and capacity. 
(c)  The Joint California Polic y Working Group on AI Frontier Models 
has recommended sound principles for policy in artificial intelligence. 
(d)  Targeted interv entions to support ef fective artificial intelligence 
governance should balance the technology’s benefits and the potential for 
material risks. 
(e)  In b uilding a rob ust and transparent e vidence en vironment, 
policymakers can align incenti ves to simultaneously protect consumers, 
leverage industry expertise, and recognize leading safety practices. 
(f)  As industry actors conduct internal research on their technologies’ 
impacts, public trust in these technologies would significantly benefit from 
access to information re garding, and increased a wareness of, frontier AI 
capabilities. 
(g)  Greater transparency can also adv ance accountability, competition, 
and public trust. 
(h)  Whistleblower protections and public-facing information sharing are 
key instruments to increase transparency. 
(i)  Incident reporting systems enable monitoring of the post-deployment 
impacts of artificial intelligence. 
(j)  Unless the y are de veloped with careful diligence and reasonable 
precaution, there is concern that adv anced artificial intelligence systems 
could have capabilities that pose catastrophic risks from both malicious uses 
90 
Ch. 138 — 3 — 
  

and malfunctions, including artificial intelligence-enabled hacking, biological 
attacks, and loss of control. 
(k)  With the frontier of artificial intelligence rapidly evolving, there is a 
need for le gislation to track the frontier of artificial intelligence research 
and alert policymakers and the public to serious risks and harms from the 
very most advanced artificial intelligence systems, while avoiding burdening 
smaller companies behind the frontier. 
(l)  While the major artificial intelligence de velopers ha ve already 
voluntarily established the creation, use, and publication of frontier AI 
frameworks as an industry best practice, not all de velopers are pro viding 
reporting that is consistent and sufficient to ensure necessary transparency 
and protection of the public. Mandatory , standardized, and objecti ve 
reporting by frontier developers is required to provide the government and 
the public with timely and accurate information. 
(m)  Timely reporting of critical safety incidents to the go vernment is 
essential to ensure that public authorities are promptly informed of ongoing 
and emerging risks to public safety. This reporting enables the government 
to monitor , assess, and respond ef fectively in the e vent that adv anced 
capabilities emerge in frontier artificial intelligence models that may pose 
a threat to the public. 
(n)  In the future, foundation models developed by smaller companies or 
that are behind the frontier may pose significant catastrophic risk, and 
additional legislation may be needed at that time. 
(o)  The recent release of the Go vernor’s California Report on Frontier 
AI Policy and testimony from legislative hearings on artificial intelligence 
before the Le gislature reflect the adv ances in AI model capabilities that 
could pose potential catastrophic risk in frontier artificial intelligence, which 
this act aims to address. 
(p)  It is the intent of the Le gislature to create more transparenc y, but 
collective safety will depend in part on frontier developers taking due care 
in their development and deployment of frontier models proportional to the 
scale of the foreseeable risks. 
SEC. 2. Chapter 25.1 (commencing with Section 22757.10) is added to 
Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, to read: 
Chapter  25.1.  Transparency in Frontier Artificial Intelligence 
Act 
22757.10. This chapter shall be known as the Transparency in Frontier 
Artificial Intelligence Act. 
22757.11. For purposes of this chapter: 
(a)  “Affiliate” means a person controlling, controlled by , or under 
common control with a specified person, directly or indirectly, through one 
or more intermediaries. 
(b)  “Artificial intelligence model” means an engineered or machine-based 
system that v aries in its le vel of autonomy and that can, for e xplicit or 
90 
— 4 — Ch. 138 
  

implicit objectives, infer from the input it receives how to generate outputs 
that can influence physical or virtual environments. 
(c)  (1)  “Catastrophic risk” means a foreseeable and material risk that a 
frontier developer’s development, storage, use, or deployment of a frontier 
model will materially contribute to the death of, or serious injury to, more 
than 50 people or more than one billion dollars ($1,000,000,000) in damage 
to, or loss of, property arising from a single incident in volving a frontier 
model doing any of the following: 
(A)  Providing e xpert-level assistance in the creation or release of a 
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapon. 
(B)  Engaging in conduct with no meaningful human o versight, 
intervention, or supervision that is either a c yberattack or, if the conduct 
had been committed by a human, w ould constitute the crime of murder , 
assault, extortion, or theft, including theft by false pretense. 
(C)  Evading the control of its frontier developer or user. 
(2)  “Catastrophic risk” does not include a foreseeable and material risk 
from any of the following: 
(A)  Information that a frontier model outputs if the information is 
otherwise publicly accessible in a substantially similar form from a source 
other than a foundation model. 
(B)  Lawful activity of the federal government. 
(C)  Harm caused by a frontier model in combination with other software 
if the frontier model did not materially contribute to the harm. 
(d)  “Critical safety incident” means any of the following: 
(1)  Unauthorized access to, modification of, or exfiltration of, the model 
weights of a frontier model that results in death or bodily injury. 
(2)  Harm resulting from the materialization of a catastrophic risk. 
(3)  Loss of control of a frontier model causing death or bodily injury. 
(4)  A frontier model that uses decepti ve techniques against the frontier 
developer to sub vert the controls or monitoring of its frontier de veloper 
outside of the context of an evaluation designed to elicit this behavior and 
in a manner that demonstrates materially increased catastrophic risk. 
(e)  (1)  “Deploy” means to mak e a frontier model a vailable to a third 
party for use, modification, copying, or combination with other software. 
(2)  “Deploy” does not include making a frontier model a vailable to a 
third party for the primary purpose of developing or evaluating the frontier 
model. 
(f)  “Foundation model” means an artificial intelligence model that is all 
of the following: 
(1)  Trained on a broad data set. 
(2)  Designed for generality of output. 
(3)  Adaptable to a wide range of distinctive tasks. 
(g)  “Frontier AI frame work” means documented technical and 
organizational protocols to manage, assess, and mitigate catastrophic risks. 
(h)  “Frontier developer” means a person who has trained, or initiated the 
training of, a frontier model, with respect to which the person has used, or 
90 
Ch. 138 — 5 — 
  

intends to use, at least as much computing power to train the frontier model 
as would meet the technical specifications found in subdivision (i). 
(i)  (1)  “Frontier model” means a foundation model that was trained using 
a quantity of computing power greater than 10^26 integer or floating-point 
operations. 
(2)  The quantity of computing po wer described in paragraph (1) shall 
include computing for the original training run and for an y subsequent 
fine-tuning, reinforcement learning, or other material modifications the 
developer applies to a preceding foundation model. 
(j)  “Large frontier developer” means a frontier de veloper that together 
with its affiliates collecti vely had annual gross re venues in excess of five 
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) in the preceding calendar year. 
(k)  “Model weight” means a numerical parameter in a frontier model 
that is adjusted through training and that helps determine ho w inputs are 
transformed into outputs. 
(l)  “Property” means tangible or intangible property. 
22757.12. (a)  A large frontier developer shall write, implement, comply 
with, and clearly and conspicuously publish on its internet website a frontier 
AI framework that applies to the large frontier developer’s frontier models 
and describes ho w the lar ge frontier de veloper approaches all of the 
following: 
(1)  Incorporating national standards, international standards, and 
industry-consensus best practices into its frontier AI framework. 
(2)  Defining and assessing thresholds used by the large frontier developer 
to identify and assess whether a frontier model has capabilities that could 
pose a catastrophic risk, which may include multiple-tiered thresholds. 
(3)  Applying mitigations to address the potential for catastrophic risks 
based on the results of assessments undertaken pursuant to paragraph (2). 
(4)  Reviewing assessments and adequac y of mitig ations as part of the 
decision to deploy a frontier model or use it extensively internally. 
(5)  Using third parties to assess the potential for catastrophic risks and 
the effectiveness of mitigations of catastrophic risks. 
(6)  Revisiting and updating the frontier AI framework, including an y 
criteria that trigger updates and how the large frontier developer determines 
when its frontier models are substantially modified enough to require 
disclosures pursuant to subdivision (c). 
(7)  Cybersecurity practices to secure unreleased model weights from 
unauthorized modification or transfer by internal or external parties. 
(8)  Identifying and responding to critical safety incidents. 
(9)  Instituting internal go vernance practices to ensure implementation 
of these processes. 
(10)  Assessing and managing catastrophic risk resulting from the internal 
use of its frontier models, including risks resulting from a frontier model 
circumventing oversight mechanisms. 
(b)  (1)  A large frontier developer shall review and, as appropriate, update 
its frontier AI framework at least once per year. 
90 
— 6 — Ch. 138 
  

(2)  If a lar ge frontier de veloper mak es a material modification to its 
frontier AI frame work, the lar ge frontier de veloper shall clearly and 
conspicuously publish the modified frontier AI framework and a justification 
for that modification within 30 days. 
(c)  (1)  Before, or concurrently with, deploying a new frontier model or 
a substantially modified v ersion of an e xisting frontier model, a frontier 
developer shall clearly and conspicuously publish on its internet website a 
transparency report containing all of the following: 
(A)  The internet website of the frontier developer. 
(B)  A mechanism that enables a natural person to communicate with the 
frontier developer. 
(C)  The release date of the frontier model. 
(D)  The languages supported by the frontier model. 
(E)  The modalities of output supported by the frontier model. 
(F)  The intended uses of the frontier model. 
(G)  Any generally applicable restrictions or conditions on uses of the 
frontier model. 
(2)  Before, or concurrently with, deplo ying a ne w frontier model or a 
substantially modified version of an existing frontier model, a large frontier 
developer shall include in the transparency report required by paragraph (1) 
summaries of all of the following: 
(A)  Assessments of catastrophic risks from the frontier model conducted 
pursuant to the large frontier developer’s frontier AI framework. 
(B)  The results of those assessments. 
(C)  The extent to which third-party evaluators were involved. 
(D)  Other steps tak en to fulfill the requirements of the frontier AI 
framework with respect to the frontier model. 
(3)  A frontier de veloper that publishes the information described in 
paragraph (1) or (2) as part of a lar ger document, including a system card 
or model card, shall be deemed in compliance with the applicable paragraph. 
(4)  A frontier de veloper is encouraged, b ut not required, to mak e 
disclosures described in this subdivision that are consistent with, or superior 
to, industry best practices. 
(d)  A large frontier developer shall transmit to the Office of Emergency 
Services a summary of any assessment of catastrophic risk resulting from 
internal use of its frontier models every three months or pursuant to another 
reasonable schedule specified by the lar ge frontier de veloper and 
communicated in writing to the Office of Emergency Services with written 
updates, as appropriate. 
(e)  (1)  (A)  A frontier de veloper shall not mak e a materially f alse or 
misleading statement about catastrophic risk from its frontier models or its 
management of catastrophic risk. 
(B)  A lar ge frontier de veloper shall not mak e a materially f alse or 
misleading statement about its implementation of, or compliance with, its 
frontier AI framework. 
(2)  This subdivision does not apply to a statement that was made in good 
faith and was reasonable under the circumstances. 
90 
Ch. 138 — 7 — 
  

(f)  (1)  When a frontier developer publishes documents to comply with 
this section, the frontier developer may make redactions to those documents 
that are necessary to protect the frontier developer’s trade secrets, the frontier 
developer’s c ybersecurity, public safety , or the national security of the 
United States or to comply with any federal or state law. 
(2)  If a frontier de veloper redacts information in a document pursuant 
to this subdivision, the frontier developer shall describe the character and 
justification of the redaction in an y published version of the document to 
the extent permitted by the concerns that justify redaction and shall retain 
the unredacted information for five years. 
22757.13. (a)  The Office of Emer gency Services shall establish a 
mechanism to be used by a frontier developer or a member of the public to 
report a critical safety incident that includes all of the following: 
(1)  The date of the critical safety incident. 
(2)  The reasons the incident qualifies as a critical safety incident. 
(3)  A short and plain statement describing the critical safety incident. 
(4)  Whether the incident w as associated with internal use of a frontier 
model. 
(b)  (1)  The Office of Emergency Services shall establish a mechanism 
to be used by a large frontier developer to confidentially submit summaries 
of an y assessments of the potential for catastrophic risk resulting from 
internal use of its frontier models. 
(2)  The Office of Emergency Services shall take all necessary precautions 
to limit access to an y reports related to internal use of frontier models to 
only personnel with a specific need to know the information and to protect 
the reports from unauthorized access. 
(c)  (1)  Subject to paragraph (2), a frontier de veloper shall report an y 
critical safety incident pertaining to one or more of its frontier models to 
the Office of Emergency Services within 15 days of discovering the critical 
safety incident. 
(2)  If a frontier developer discovers that a critical safety incident poses 
an imminent risk of death or serious physical injury, the frontier developer 
shall disclose that incident within 24 hours to an authority , including any 
law enforcement agency or public safety agenc y with jurisdiction, that is 
appropriate based on the nature of that incident and as required by law. 
(3)  A frontier developer that discovers information about a critical safety 
incident after filing the initial report required by this subdi vision may file 
an amended report. 
(4)  A frontier developer is encouraged, but not required, to report critical 
safety incidents pertaining to foundation models that are not frontier models. 
(d)  The Office of Emergency Services shall review critical safety incident 
reports submitted by frontier developers and may review reports submitted 
by members of the public. 
(e)  (1)  The Attorney General or the Office of Emergency Services may 
transmit reports of critical safety incidents and reports from co vered 
employees made pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 1107) 
90 
— 8 — Ch. 138 
  

of Part 3 of Division 2 of the Labor Code to the Legislature, the Governor, 
the federal government, or appropriate state agencies. 
(2)  The Attorney General or the Office of Emer gency Services shall 
strongly consider an y risks related to trade secrets, public safety , 
cybersecurity of a frontier developer, or national security when transmitting 
reports. 
(f)  A report of a critical safety incident submitted to the Office of 
Emergency Services pursuant to this section, a report of assessments of 
catastrophic risk from internal use pursuant to Section 22757.12, and a 
covered employee report made pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with 
Section 1107) of Part 3 of Division 2 of the Labor Code are e xempt from 
the California Public Records Act (Division 10 (commencing with Section 
7920.000) of Title 1 of the Government Code). 
(g)  (1)  Beginning January 1, 2027, and annually thereafter , the Office 
of Emer gency Services shall produce a report with anon ymized and 
aggregated information about critical safety incidents that ha ve been 
reviewed by the Office of Emergency Services since the preceding report. 
(2)  The Office of Emergency Services shall not include information in 
a report pursuant to this subdivision that would compromise the trade secrets 
or cybersecurity of a frontier developer, public safety, or the national security 
of the United States or that would be prohibited by any federal or state law. 
(3)  The Office of Emer gency Services shall transmit a report pursuant 
to this subdivision to the Legislature, pursuant to Section 9795, and to the 
Governor. 
(h)  The Office of Emergency Services may adopt regulations designating 
one or more federal laws, regulations, or guidance documents that meet all 
of the following conditions for the purposes of subdivision (i): 
(1)  (A)  The law, regulation, or guidance document imposes or states 
standards or requirements for critical safety incident reporting that are 
substantially equivalent to, or stricter than, those required by this section. 
(B)  The law, regulation, or guidance document described in subparagraph 
(A) does not need to require critical safety incident reporting to the State 
of California. 
(2)  The la w, re gulation, or guidance document is intended to assess, 
detect, or mitigate the catastrophic risk. 
(i)  (1)  A frontier developer that intends to comply with this section by 
complying with the requirements of, or meeting the standards stated by , a 
federal la w, re gulation, or guidance document designated pursuant to 
subdivision (h) shall declare its intent to do so to the Office of Emergency 
Services. 
(2)  After a frontier developer has declared its intent pursuant to paragraph 
(1), both of the following apply: 
(A)  The frontier de veloper shall be deemed in compliance with this 
section to the e xtent that the frontier de veloper meets the standards of, or 
complies with the requirements imposed or stated by, the designated federal 
law, regulation, or guidance document until the frontier developer declares 
the revocation of that intent to the Office of Emer gency Services or the 
90 
Ch. 138 — 9 — 
  

Office of Emer gency Services re vokes a rele vant regulation pursuant to 
subdivision (j). 
(B)  The failure by a frontier developer to meet the standards of, or comply 
with the requirements stated by , the federal la w, regulation, or guidance 
document designated pursuant to subdivision (h) shall constitute a violation 
of this chapter. 
(j)  The Office of Emergency Services shall revoke a regulation adopted 
under subdivision (h) if the requirements of subdi vision (h) are no longer 
met. 
22757.14. (a)  On or before January 1, 2027, and annually thereafter , 
the Department of Technology shall assess recent evidence and developments 
relevant to the purposes of this chapter and shall mak e recommendations 
about whether and ho w to update an y of the follo wing definitions for the 
purposes of this chapter to ensure that they accurately reflect technological 
developments, scientific literature, and widely accepted national and 
international standards: 
(1)  “Frontier model” so that it applies to foundation models at the frontier 
of artificial intelligence development. 
(2)  “Frontier developer” so that it applies to developers of frontier models 
who are themselves at the frontier of artificial intelligence development. 
(3)  “Large frontier developer” so that it applies to well-resourced frontier 
developers. 
(b)  In making recommendations pursuant to this section, the Department 
of Technology shall take into account all of the following: 
(1)  Similar thresholds used in international standards or federal la w, 
guidance, or regulations for the management of catastrophic risk and shall 
align with a definition adopted in a federal la w or regulation to the extent 
that it is consistent with the purposes of this chapter. 
(2)  Input from stak eholders, including academics, industry , the 
open-source community, and governmental entities. 
(3)  The e xtent to which a person will be able to determine, before 
beginning to train or deploy a foundation model, whether that person will 
be subject to the definition as a frontier de veloper or as a lar ge frontier 
developer with an aim toward allowing earlier determinations if possible. 
(4)  The complexity of determining whether a person or foundation model 
is covered, with an aim toward allowing simpler determinations if possible. 
(5)  The e xternal v erifiability of determining whether a person or 
foundation model is co vered, with an aim to ward definitions that are 
verifiable by parties other than the frontier developer. 
(c)  Upon de veloping recommendations pursuant to this section, the 
Department of Technology shall submit a report to the Legislature, pursuant 
to Section 9795 of the Government Code, with those recommendations. 
(d)  (1)  Beginning January 1, 2027, and annually thereafter, the Attorney 
General shall produce a report with anonymized and aggregated information 
about reports from co vered emplo yees made pursuant to Chapter 5.1 
(commencing with Section 1107) of Part 3 of Division 2 of the Labor Code 
that have been reviewed by the Attorney General since the preceding report. 
90 
— 10 — Ch. 138 
  

(2)  The Attorney General shall not include information in a report 
pursuant to this subdi vision that w ould compromise the trade secrets or 
cybersecurity of a frontier developer, confidentiality of a covered employee, 
public safety, or the national security of the United States or that would be 
prohibited by any federal or state law. 
(3)  The Attorney General shall transmit a report pursuant to this 
subdivision to the Legislature, pursuant to Section 9795 of the Government 
Code, and to the Governor. 
22757.15. (a)  A large frontier developer that fails to publish or transmit 
a compliant document required to be published or transmitted under this 
chapter, mak es a statement in violation of subdi vision (e) of Section 
22757.12, fails to report an incident as required by Section 22757.13, or 
fails to comply with its own frontier AI framework shall be subject to a civil 
penalty in an amount dependent upon the severity of the violation that does 
not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000) per violation. 
(b)  A civil penalty described in this section shall be recovered in a civil 
action brought only by the Attorney General. 
22757.16. The loss of v alue of equity does not count as damage to or 
loss of property for the purposes of this chapter. 
SEC. 3. Section 11546.8 is added to the Government Code, to read: 
11546.8. (a)  There is hereby established within the Go vernment 
Operations Agency a consortium that shall develop, pursuant to this section, 
a framework for the creation of a public cloud computing cluster to be 
known as “CalCompute.” 
(b)  The consortium shall de velop a frame work for the creation of 
CalCompute that adv ances the de velopment and deplo yment of artificial 
intelligence that is safe, ethical, equitable, and sustainable by doing, at a 
minimum, both of the following: 
(1)  Fostering research and innovation that benefits the public. 
(2)  Enabling equitable innovation by expanding access to computational 
resources. 
(c)  The consortium shall mak e reasonable ef forts to ensure that 
CalCompute is established within the University of California to the extent 
possible. 
(d)  CalCompute shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following: 
(1)  A fully owned and hosted cloud platform. 
(2)  Necessary human expertise to operate and maintain the platform. 
(3)  Necessary human expertise to support, train, and facilitate the use of 
CalCompute. 
(e)  The consortium shall operate in accordance with all rele vant labor 
and workforce laws and standards. 
(f)  (1)  On or before January 1, 2027, the Government Operations Agency 
shall submit, pursuant to Section 9795, a report from the consortium to the 
Legislature with the framework developed pursuant to subdivision (b) for 
the creation and operation of CalCompute. 
(2)  The report required by this subdi vision shall include all of the 
following elements: 
90 
Ch. 138 — 11 — 
  

(A)  A landscape analysis of California’ s current public, pri vate, and 
nonprofit cloud computing platform infrastructure. 
(B)  An analysis of the cost to the state to build and maintain CalCompute 
and recommendations for potential funding sources. 
(C)  Recommendations for the governance structure and ongoing operation 
of CalCompute. 
(D)  Recommendations for the parameters for use of CalCompute, 
including, but not limited to, a process for determining which users and 
projects will be supported by CalCompute. 
(E)  An analysis of the state’s technology workforce and recommendations 
for equitable pathw ays to strengthen the w orkforce, including the role of 
CalCompute. 
(F)  A detailed description of an y proposed partnerships, contracts, or 
licensing agreements with nongo vernmental entities, including, b ut not 
limited to, technology-based companies, that demonstrates compliance with 
the requirements of subdivisions (c) and (d). 
(G)  Recommendations re garding ho w the creation and ongoing 
management of CalCompute can prioritize the use of the current public 
sector workforce. 
(g)  The consortium shall, consistent with state constitutional law, consist 
of 14 members as follows: 
(1)  Four representatives of the University of California and other public 
and private academic research institutions and national laboratories appointed 
by the Secretary of Government Operations. 
(2)  Three representati ves of impacted w orkforce labor or ganizations 
appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly. 
(3)  Three representatives of stakeholder groups with rele vant expertise 
and e xperience, including, b ut not limited to, ethicists, consumer rights 
advocates, and other public interest advocates appointed by the Senate Rules 
Committee. 
(4)  Four e xperts in technology and artificial intelligence to pro vide 
technical assistance appointed by the Secretary of Government Operations. 
(h)  The members of the consortium shall serv e without compensation, 
but shall be reimbursed for all necessary expenses actually incurred in the 
performance of their duties. 
(i)  The consortium shall be dissolv ed upon submission of the report 
required by paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) to the Legislature. 
(j)  If CalCompute is established within the University of California, the 
University of California may receive private donations for the purposes of 
implementing CalCompute. 
(k)  This section shall become operative only upon an appropriation in a 
budget act, or other measure, for the purposes of this section. 
SEC. 4. Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 1107) is added to P art 
3 of Division 2 of the Labor Code, to read: 
90 
— 12 — Ch. 138 
  

Chapter  5.1.  Whistleblower Protections: Catastrophic Risks 
in AI Foundation Models 
1107. For purposes of this chapter: 
(a)  (1)  “Catastrophic risk” means a foreseeable and material risk that a 
frontier de veloper’s de velopment, storage, use, or deplo yment of a 
foundation model will materially contribute to the death of, or serious injury 
to, more than 50 people or more than one billion dollars ($1,000,000,000) 
in damage to, or loss of, property arising from a single incident in volving 
a foundation model doing any of the following: 
(A)  Providing e xpert-level assistance in the creation or release of a 
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapon. 
(B)  Engaging in conduct with no meaningful human o versight, 
intervention, or supervision that is either a cyberattack or, if committed by 
a human, would constitute the crime of murder, assault, extortion, or theft, 
including theft by false pretense. 
(C)  Evading the control of its frontier developer or user. 
(2)  “Catastrophic risk” does not include a foreseeable and material risk 
from any of the following: 
(A)  Information that a foundation model outputs if the information is 
otherwise publicly accessible in a substantially similar form from a source 
other than a foundation model. 
(B)  Lawful activity of the federal government. 
(C)  Harm caused by a foundation model in combination with other 
software where the foundation model did not materially contrib ute to the 
harm. 
(b)  “Covered employee” means an employee responsible for assessing, 
managing, or addressing risk of critical safety incidents. 
(c)  “Critical safety incident” means any of the following: 
(1)  Unauthorized access to, modification of, or exfiltration of the model 
weights of a foundation model that results in death, bodily injury, or damage 
to, or loss of, property. 
(2)  Harm resulting from the materialization of a catastrophic risk. 
(3)  Loss of control of a foundation model causing death or bodily injury. 
(4)  A foundation model that uses deceptive techniques against the frontier 
developer to sub vert the controls or monitoring of its frontier de veloper 
outside of the context of an evaluation designed to elicit this behavior and 
in a manner that demonstrates materially increased catastrophic risk. 
(d)  “Foundation model” has the meaning defined in Section 22757.11 
of the Business and Professions Code. 
(e)  “Frontier developer” has the meaning defined in Section 22757.11 
of the Business and Professions Code. 
(f)  “Large frontier de veloper” has the meaning defined in Section 
22757.11 of the Business and Professions Code. 
1107.1. (a)  A frontier developer shall not make, adopt, enforce, or enter 
into a rule, regulation, policy, or contract that prevents a covered employee 
from disclosing, or retaliates ag ainst a co vered employee for disclosing, 
90 
Ch. 138 — 13 — 
  

information to the Attorney General, a federal authority , a person with 
authority over the covered employee, or another covered employee who has 
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the reported issue, if the covered 
employee has reasonable cause to belie ve that the information discloses 
either of the following: 
(1)  The frontier de veloper’s acti vities pose a specific and substantial 
danger to the public health or safety resulting from a catastrophic risk. 
(2)  The frontier developer has violated Chapter 25.1 (commencing with 
Section 22757.10) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code. 
(b)  A frontier de veloper shall not enter into a contract that pre vents a 
covered employee from making a disclosure protected under Section 1102.5. 
(c)  A covered employee may use the hotline described in Section 1102.7 
to make reports described in subdivision (a). 
(d)  A frontier de veloper shall pro vide a clear notice to all co vered 
employees of their rights and responsibilities under this section, including 
by doing either of the following: 
(1)  At all times posting and displaying within any workplace maintained 
by the frontier developer a notice to all co vered employees of their rights 
under this section, ensuring that an y ne w co vered emplo yee recei ves 
equivalent notice, and ensuring that an y co vered emplo yee who w orks 
remotely periodically receives an equivalent notice. 
(2)  At least once each year , providing written notice to each co vered 
employee of the covered employee’s rights under this section and ensuring 
that the notice is recei ved and ackno wledged by all of those co vered 
employees. 
(e)  (1)  A lar ge frontier de veloper shall pro vide a reasonable internal 
process through which a co vered emplo yee may anon ymously disclose 
information to the large frontier developer if the covered employee believes 
in good faith that the information indicates that the large frontier developer’s 
activities present a specific and substantial danger to the public health or 
safety resulting from a catastrophic risk or that the large frontier developer 
violated Chapter 25.1 (commencing with Section 22757.10) of Di vision 8 
of the Business and Professions Code, including a monthly update to the 
person who made the disclosure re garding the status of the lar ge frontier 
developer’s investigation of the disclosure and the actions taken by the large 
frontier developer in response to the disclosure. 
(2)  (A)  Except as pro vided in subparagraph (B), the disclosures and 
responses of the process required by this subdi vision shall be shared with 
officers and directors of the lar ge frontier de veloper at least once each 
quarter. 
(B)  If a co vered emplo yee has alle ged wrongdoing by an officer or 
director of the lar ge frontier de veloper in a disclosure or response, 
subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to that officer or director. 
(f)  The court is authorized to a ward reasonable attorne y’s fees to a 
plaintiff who brings a successful action for a violation of this section. 
(g)  In a ci vil action brought pursuant to this section, once it has been 
demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed 
90 
— 14 — Ch. 138 
  

by this section w as a contrib uting factor in the alle ged prohibited action 
against the covered employee, the frontier developer shall have the burden 
of proof to demonstrate by clear and con vincing evidence that the alleged 
action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the 
covered employee had not engaged in activities protected by this section. 
(h)  (1)  In a civil action or administrati ve proceeding brought pursuant 
to this section, a covered employee may petition the superior court in an y 
county wherein the violation in question is alle ged to ha ve occurred, or 
wherein the person resides or transacts business, for appropriate temporary 
or preliminary injunctive relief. 
(2)  Upon the filing of the petition for injunctive relief, the petitioner shall 
cause notice thereof to be served upon the person, and thereupon the court 
shall have jurisdiction to grant temporary injunctive relief as the court deems 
just and proper. 
(3)  In addition to an y harm resulting directly from a violation of this 
section, the court shall consider the chilling ef fect on other co vered 
employees asserting their rights under this section in determining whether 
temporary injunctive relief is just and proper. 
(4)  Appropriate injuncti ve relief shall be issued on a sho wing that 
reasonable cause exists to believe a violation has occurred. 
(5)  An order authorizing temporary injunctive relief shall remain in effect 
until an administrative or judicial determination or citation has been issued, 
or until the completion of a re view pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 
98.74, whichever is longer, or at a certain time set by the court. Thereafter, 
a preliminary or permanent injunction may be issued if it is sho wn to be 
just and proper. Any temporary injunctive relief shall not prohibit a frontier 
developer from disciplining or terminating a covered employee for conduct 
that is unrelated to the claim of the retaliation. 
(i)  Notwithstanding Section 916 of the Code of Civil Procedure, injunctive 
relief granted pursuant to this section shall not be stayed pending appeal. 
(j)  (1)  This section does not impair or limit the applicability of Section 
1102.5, including with respect to the rights of employees who are not covered 
employees to report violations of this chapter or Chapter 25.1 (commencing 
with Section 22757.10) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code. 
(2)  The remedies provided by this section are cumulati ve to each other 
and the remedies or penalties available under all other laws of this state. 
1107.2. The loss of value of equity does not count as damage to or loss 
of property for the purposes of this chapter. 
SEC. 5. (a)  The provisions of this act are severable. If any provision of 
this act or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other 
provisions or applications that can be gi ven ef fect without the in valid 
provision or application. 
(b)  This act shall be liberally construed to effectuate its purposes. 
(c)  The duties and obligations imposed by this act are cumulati ve with 
any other duties or oblig ations imposed under other la w and shall not be 
construed to relieve any party from any duties or obligations imposed under 
other law and do not limit any rights or remedies under existing law. 
90 
Ch. 138 — 15 — 
  

(d)  This act shall not apply to the extent that it strictly conflicts with the 
terms of a contract between a federal go vernment entity and a frontier 
developer. 
(e)  This act shall not apply to the e xtent that it is preempted by federal 
law. 
(f)  This act preempts any rule, regulation, code, ordinance, or other law 
adopted by a city, county, city and county, municipality, or local agency on 
or after January 1, 2025, specifically related to the re gulation of frontier 
developers with respect to their management of catastrophic risk. 
SEC. 6. The Legislature finds and declares that Section 2 of this act, 
which adds Chapter 25.1 (commencing with Section 22757.10) to Division 
8 of the Business and Professions Code, imposes a limitation on the public’s 
right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public 
officials and agencies within the meaning of Section 3 of Article I of the 
California Constitution. Pursuant to that constitutional pro vision, the 
Legislature mak es the follo wing findings to demonstrate the interest 
protected by this limitation and the need for protecting that interest: 
Information in critical safety incident reports, assessments of risks from 
internal use, and reports from covered employees may contain information 
that could threaten public safety or compromise the response to an incident 
if disclosed to the public. 
O 
90 
— 16 — Ch. 138 
  